 
 
Sustainable Business Model Challenges:  
Economic Recovery and Digital Transformation  
Conference Proceedings 
 
7
th International Conference 
on New Business Models 
 
LUMSA University, June 23-24 2022 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
i 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Disclaimer 
The editors have taken the utmost care to ensure the reliability and completeness of all the 
published information. However, inaccuracies cannot be precluded. While the greatest possible 
care was taken during the preparation of these proceedings, there is always the possibility that 
certain information of sources referred to become(s) outdated or inaccurate over the course of 
time. Certain references in these proceedings lead to information sources that are maintained 
by third parties and over which we have no control. The editors and authors therefore do not 
bear responsibility for the accuracy or any other aspect of the information from these sources. 
In no way does the mention of these information sources represent a recommendation by the 
editors or the authors or an implicit or explicit approval of the information.  
The editors and authors are not responsible for the consequences of activities undertaken on the 
basis of these proceedings. No part of these proceedings may be reproduced by means of print, 
photocopies, automated databases or in any other way, without the prior written permission of 
the corresponding authors. The texts in this publication do not aim to the discriminatory in any 
way on the basis of sex, transgender identity or expression, race, religion, disability, sexual 
orientation or age. Wherever it says ‘he’ in the text, ‘she’ may naturally be read as well and vice 
versa. 
 
 
Cite/reference as: 
Michelini L., Minà A and Alaimo Di Loro P. (eds), (2022). Proceedings of the 7th International 
Conference on New Business Models: Sustainable Business Model Challenges: Economic 
Recovery and Digital Transformation, LUMSA University. ISBN 979-12-210-1188-3 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
ii 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table of contents 
BUSINESS MODEL CONVERSATION AND A SPRINGBOARD FOR FUTURE RESEARCH ................................... 1 
CALL FOR CONTRIBUTIONS ...................................................................................................................... 8 
CONFERENCE TRACKS ............................................................................................................................11 
TRACK 1.1 - THE ROLE OF COLLABORATIVE BUSINESS MODELS IN CREATING SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC 
TRANSITION ...........................................................................................................................................13 
TRACK 1.2 - ECOSYSTEMS IN SUPPORT OF SUSTAINABILITY .....................................................................92 
TRACK 1.3 - NATURAL ECOSYSTEM SERVICES AS DRIVERS FOR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL 
DEVELOPMENT ....................................................................................................................................246 
TRACK 1.4 - BUSINESS MODELS FOR A CIRCULAR ECONOMY .................................................................264 
TRACK 2.1 - DATA-DRIVEN BUSINESS MODELS FOR SUSTAINABILITY AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION IN 
EMERGING FIELDS ................................................................................................................................397 
TRACK 2.2 - BUSINESS MODEL EXPERIMENTATION FOR SUSTAINABILITY ...............................................449 
TRACK 2.3 - NEW BUSINESS MODELS IN AN INTERNATIONAL CONTEXT .................................................543 
TRACK 2.4 - RESILIENCE AND PROFITABILITY THROUGH SUSTAINABILITY FOR FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES, 
MARKETS AND CORPORATE FINANCE ...................................................................................................582 
TRACK 2.5 - SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODELS: CREATE AND CAPTURE VALUE THROUGH FRUGAL 
INNOVATION ........................................................................................................................................614 
TRACK 2.6 - SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT, REPORTING AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION .....................647 
TRACK 3.1 - ASSESSING AND MANAGING THE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE OF BUSINESS MODELS ..742 
TRACK 3.2 - NEW BUSINESS MODELS IN TIMES OF CRISIS ......................................................................824 
TRACK 3.3 - ENTREPRENEURSHIP FOR SOCIAL INCLUSION: BUSINESS MODELLING FOR IMPACT ............861 
TRACK 3.4 - SHARING ECONOMY BUSINESS MODELS FOR SUSTAINABILITY: DESIGN, FUNCTIONING AND 
IMPACTS ..............................................................................................................................................907 
TRACK 3.5 - RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION: THE REDUCTION OF 
FOOD LOSS AND WASTE THROUGH NEW BUSINESS MODELS AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ......................976 
TRACK 4.1 - NEW THEORETICAL FOUNDATIONS OF BUSINESS MODELS FOR SUSTAINABILITY AS SOCIAL 
ACTION .............................................................................................................................................. 1001 
TRACK 4.2 - DESIGN THINKING, ACTOR ENGAGEMENT, AND LEGITIMATION IN THE CONTEXT OF CIRCULAR 
BUSINESS MODEL INNOVATION ......................................................................................................... 1052 
CONFERENCE BOARD ......................................................................................................................... 1093 
CONFERENCE TEAM ........................................................................................................................... 1094 
ABOUT LUMSA UNIVERSITY ................................................................................................................ 1095 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Business Model Conversation and a 
springboard for future research 
Anna Minà, Laura Michelini 
LUMSA University 
 
 
In the last decades, management research and practice have devoted increasing attention to 
explore the core tenets underlying business models and the forms that business models can take 
(Afuah, 2004; Zott, Amit & Massa, 2011; Massa, Tucci & Afuah, 2017).  
To date, by googling “business model*”, we find about 235,000,000 results (on June 16, 
2022). While, in 1995, “there have been at least 1,177 articles published” (Zott et al., 2011: 1020), 
to date, Google Scholar reports about 1,160,000 results, including editorials, conceptual and 
empirical publications, and working papers.  
To assess the evolution of literature, we retrieve all the articles for all years-available (1968 
to 2022) in the Scopus platform published in the journals with titles, abstracts, or keywords 
containing the words “business model*” (Figure 1). We observe 40,511 peer-reviewed academic 
journals and practitioner-oriented studies on business models. This confirms that the business 
model is a well-established topic in academic literature (Cuc, 2019; Wirtz, Pistoia, Ullrich & Gottel, 
2016). Additionally, the trend is significantly expanding.  
 
Figure 1: Evolutionary path of literature on the business model from 1981 to 2021 
 
 
Source: Scopus platform 
 
The relevance of exploring business models has grown according to a multidisciplinary perspective. 
While almost 19% of business model studies are included in business and management, the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
2 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
remaining business model literature also spans from economics, social sciences, computer sciences, 
decision sciences, engineering, and environmental studies to psychologies and energy.  
Given the multifaced nature of business, “it is not surprising that there is a move to build 
bridges if not to live on one island,” and the study of the business model involves many disciplines 
(Knights & Willmott, 1997: 9). 
 
Figure 2: Documents by subject area 
 
Source: Scopus 
At this point, two questions deserve to be addressed: 
a) Why has the interest in business models (or related topics) spread worldwide?  
b) What are the most promising directions for future research on the business model? 
 
Why the interest in business model has spread worldwide 
In this section, we arrange two complementary answers to the question why the interest in business 
models (or related topics) has spread worldwide. First, business model is an important topic for 
policymakers. Focusing on business, management and accounting journals, Figure 3 reports the 
English articles of the founding sponsors of research related to business models. We can infer the 
policy makers’ significant financial attention related to business models. Arguably, the recent 
intersections among business model and sustainability, digitalization, social inclusion, and 
circularity have shifted the attention from a more traditional and profit-oriented model to 
sustainable business models (Inigo et al., 2017). Accordingly, policymakers need to address these 
global issues and develop a research agenda that can inform public policy requirements.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
3 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 3: Sponsors for document 
 
Source Scopus 
Second, the research debate on business model has progressively evolved. Seminal studies on 
business models have explored the core tenets of business models, also providing several 
definitions (Shafer, Smith & Linder, 2005). The debate was primarily oriented toward exploring how 
firms can create and appropriate value how firms are structured and organized (Morris et al., 2005; 
Teece, 2010). The emphasis was mainly on how business models might shape firms’ competitive 
advantage (Afuah & Tucci, 2001; Zott & Amit, 2007). Thus, business models represent the 
“architecture of the product” (Timmers, 1998) or the “content, structure, and governance of 
transactions designed to create value” (Amit & Zott, 2001: 511; Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002; 
Johnson, Christensen, & Kagermann, 2008). Business models help value creation and firm 
performance (Casadesus-Masanell & Ricart, 2010; Zott & Amit, 2007). Later on, the investigation 
has progressively evolved and involved other domains, such as innovation and technology 
management (Baden-Fuller & Haefliger, 2009; Doganova & Eyquem-Renault, 2009; Gambardella & 
McGahan, 2010; Mitchell & Coles, 2003) and more recently,  sustainability, social inclusion, circular 
economy, and digital transformation. The upsurge of global economic, environmental, and societal 
challenges has clarified that firms need to consider environmental and social aspects in their 
business activities and develop new business models to grow successfully in the long term. 
Figure 4 attempts to offer a frame of the state of the art of academic and practitioner-oriented 
studies published on business models. Specifically, it considers the occurrences among authors’ 
keywords of the first 2000 articles (ordered following the highest citation number) published from 
1981 to 2021 for citations with a minimum number of occurrences of 16.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
4 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 4: Occurrences among authors’ keywords of the first 2000 articles published from 1981 to 
2021 
 
Source: Elaboration with VOSviewer 
Figure 4 identifies the following clusters. Cluster 1 (i.e., violet cluster) considers topics related to 
dynamic capabilities and the challenges related to value creation and value capture. Cluster 2 (i.e., 
red cluster) encompasses the development of business models related to traditional themes in 
strategic management. Specifically, it considers topics such as collaboration, competitive 
advantage, knowledge management and supply chain management. Cluster 3 (i.e., green cluster) 
focuses on topics related with entrepreneurship, innovation, and some recent concepts, such as 
open innovation and sharing economy. Taking together the first three clusters, one might infer that 
business model is “a reflection of the firm’s realized strategy” (Casadesus-Masanell & Ricart, 2010: 
195). However, it has a different construct from the firm’s strategy. 
Recently, we see the affirmation of two additional clusters of studies that characterize business 
model literature. Specifically, cluster 4 (i.e., yellow cluster) refers to sustainability, social 
entrepreneurship, sustainable business models, and sustainable development and circular 
economy, while cluster 5 (i.e., blue cluster) is related to digital transformation, industry 4.0, and big 
data, business model innovation, internet of things and servitization.  
 
Promising Directions for Future Research  
Moving from Figure 4, we would like to point out some developments for future research. We 
believe that today the emerging topics on business models linked to sustainability (cluster 4), 
digitalization (cluster 5). 
 
Business models and digitalization 
Today, the economic landscape is being transformed by digital technologies and infrastructures 
such as robotics, cloud computing, and artificial intelligence. Additionally, the pandemic has 
boosted the adoption of digital services which enable remote working and education. Economic 
recovery demands digitalization at the heart of business model innovation. Accordingly, some 
important research questions are: 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
5 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
− 
What are the most prominent actors in digital ecosystems to support a firm’s business 
model during the post-pandemic era? 
− 
How leveraging data-driven business models to address environmental and societal 
challenges? Which are the critical complementarities in digital platforms and their 
corresponding ecosystems in emerging fields? 
− 
Which characteristics should encompass an effective digital business model to create and 
capture value through frugal innovation implementation?  
− 
How to consolidate the available knowledge on digital and phigital business model patterns 
and convert it into “knowledge for action”? 
− 
How can socially and environmentally sustainable business models for the sharing economy 
be designed and implemented? Is it possible to effectively define strategies to improve the 
sustainability performance of sharing economy business models? 
− 
How does the digital transition contribute to innovating financial resources transfer in 
financial markets? 
 
Business models and sustainability 
Academic interest in sustainable business models has grown considerably in the last years, mainly 
thanks to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the recent “Next Generation EU” plan, 
and the rapid acceleration of digital transformation. It is crucial to find new solutions allowing 
continued progress toward sustainability. The achievements of SDGs and sustainable business 
models play a crucial role in this as they are primarily oriented toward resolving social and 
environmental issues (Dentchev et al., 2018). We propose the following research questions: 
− 
How do we build more supportive ecosystems for sustainability? What are the most 
prominent ecosystem actors to support sustainability during the post-pandemic era? 
− 
What work has been done thus far means for the topic of circularity and business models 
both for academia and practice, what issues have emerged along the way, and what issues 
remained untouched? 
− 
What tools and methods are needed for sustainable and circular business model 
experimentation?  
− 
What are success and failure cases of experimentation with reported sustainability 
impacts? 
− 
Which frameworks, for example, sustainability accounting or integrated reporting, can be 
applied to assess and manage the sustainability performance of business models 
effectively? 
− 
Which best practices, in terms of assessing and managing the sustainability performance of 
organizations, business model patterns, and management accounting tools do we currently 
see in practice? 
− 
Can the social, economic, and environmental impacts of existing sharing economy business 
models be measured, and how? 
 
Conclusions 
We believe that the 7th International Conference on New Business Models in Rome represents an 
important occasion to fortify the debate on business models and provide impactful insights into the 
role of sustainable business models. Specifically, we will address two significant challenges of our 
times: economic recovery and digital transformation. Of course, if other questions come out … we 
will look forward to attending the 8th edition of NBM Conference!  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
6 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
References 
Afuah, A. (2004). Business models: A strategic management approach. New York: Irwin/McGraw-
Hill.  
Afuah, A., & Tucci, C. L. (2001). Internet business models and strategies: Text and cases. New York: 
McGraw-Hill. 
Amit, R., & Zott, C. (2001). Value creation in e-business. Strategic Management Journal, 22(6-7), 
493-520 
Baden-Fuller, C., & Haefliger, S. (2013). Business models and technological innovations. Long- Range 
Planning, 46(6), 419–426.  
Casadesus-Masanell, R., & Ricart, J. E. (2010). From strategy to business models and to tactics. Long 
Range Planning, 43(2-3), 195-215. 
Chesbrough, H., & Rosenbloom, R. S. (2002). The role of the business model in capturing value from 
innovation: evidence from Xerox Corporation’s technology spin‐off companies. Industrial and 
Corporate Change, 11(3), 529-555. 
Cuc, J. E. (2019). Trends of business model research: A bibliometric analysis. Journal of Business 
Models, 7(5), 1-24. 
Dagnino, G. B., & Minà, A. (2021). Unraveling the philosophical foundations of co-opetition 
strategy. Management and Organization Review, 17(3), 490-523. 
Dentchev, N., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, R., ... & Jonker, J. 
(2018). Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field of research and a 
future research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production, 194, 695-703. 
Doganova, L., & Eyquem-Renault, M. 2009. What do business models do? Innovation devices in 
technology entrepreneurship. Research Policy, 38(10), 1559-1570 
Gambardella, A., & McGahan, A. M. (2010). Business-model innovation: General purpose 
technologies and their implications for industry structure. Long Range Planning, 43(2-3), 262-
271. 
Inigo, E. A., Albareda, L., & Ritala, P. (2017). Business model innovation for sustainability: Exploring 
evolutionary 
and 
radical 
approaches 
through 
dynamic 
capabilities. Industry 
and 
Innovation, 24(5), 515-542. 
Johnson, M. W., Christensen, C. M., & Kagermann, H. (2008). Reinventing your business 
model. Harvard Business Review, 86(12), 57-68. 
Knights, D., & Willmott, H. (1997). The hype and hope of interdisciplinary management 
studies. British Journal of Management, 8(1), 9-22. 
Massa, L., Tucci, C. L., & Afuah, A. (2017). A critical assessment of business model 
research. Academy of Management Annals, 11(1), 73-104. 
Minà, A., Dagnino, G. B., & Vagnani, G. (2020). An interpretive framework of the interplay of 
competition and cooperation. Journal of Management and Governance, 24(1), 1-35. 
Mitchell, D., & Coles, C. (2003). The ultimate competitive advantage of continuing business model 
innovation. Journal of Business Strategy, 24: 15-21. 
Morris, M., Schindehutte, M., & Allen, J. (2005). The entrepreneur’s business model: toward a 
unified perspective. Journal of Business Research, 58(6), 726-735. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
7 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Shafer, S. M., Smith, H. J., & Linder, J. C. (2005). The power of business models. Business 
horizons, 48(3), 199-207. 
Teece, D. J. (2010). Business models, business strategy and innovation. Long Range Planning, 43(2-
3): 172-194. 
Timmers, P. (1998). Business models for electronic markets. Electronic Markets, 8(2): 3-8. 
Wirtz, B. W., Pistoia, A., Ullrich, S., & Göttel, V. (2016). Business models: Origin, development and 
future research perspectives. Long Range Planning, 49(1), 36-54. 
Zott, C., & Amit, R. (2007). Business model design and the performance of entrepreneurial firms. 
Organization Science, 18(2), 181-199.  
Zott, C., & Amit, R. (2008). The fit between product market strategy and business model: 
Implications for firm performance. Strategic Management Journal, 29(1), 1-26 
Zott, C., Amit, R., & Massa, L. (2011). The business model: recent developments and future 
research. Journal of Management, 37(4), 1019-1042. 
  
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
8 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Call for contributions 
Sustainable Business Model Challenges: Economic Recovery and Digital 
Transformation 
Academic interest in the concept of sustainable business models has grown considerably 
in the last years, especially thanks to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the 
recent “Next Generation EU” plan, and the rapid acceleration of digital transformation.  
We are now in one of the most difficult economic periods there has been and so the 7th 
International Conference on New Business Models aims to stimulate debate and offer 
impactful insights into the role of sustainable business models in addressing two of the 
major challenges of our times: economic recovery and digital transformation. 
This new decade began with the emergence of a pandemic that has had a devastating effect 
on people and organizations, both in social and economic terms. According to 
Schumpeterian theories (1939; 1949), economic growth can be sustained by the 
introduction of successful new products, processes and services, and it is the entrepreneur 
who is the prime mover in this process. Scholars and practitioners involved in the business 
model field of research should rise to the challenge of economic recovery by providing new 
ideas, knowledge, and research that meet the needs of businesses and entrepreneurs.  
Furthermore, the economic landscape is being transformed by digital technologies and 
infrastructures such as robotics, cloud computing and artificial intelligence. The pandemic 
has boosted the adoption of digital services which enable remote working and education. 
Economic recovery demands digitalisation at the heart of business model innovation.   
In this scenario it is crucial to find new solutions which allow continued progress towards 
sustainability, and the achievements of SDGs and sustainable business models play a key 
role in this as they are primarily oriented to resolving social and environmental issues 
(Dentchev et al., 2018). By adopting a multilevel perspective on these phenomena scholars 
should be in a position also to address new emerging issues such as food security, employee 
wellbeing, inequality etc., appreciating that they are characterized by inherent complexity 
and multiple actors, and involve and require interactions across multiple levels of analysis 
(Howard-Grenville, 2020). 
Such challenges are to emerge and have features at different levels of inquiry and are 
therefore too intricate to be detected by one perspective. While each level can contribute 
on its own, they are integral parts of this conference. To spur and knowledgeably compare 
and leverage different levels of analysis, we consider four different themes respectively 
focused on: system level, sectoral and organizational level, impact and methodological 
foundations. 
Authors are invited to address, but not limit themselves to, the following research 
questions:  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
9 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Theme 1: exploring the system level 
How do we build more supportive ecosystems for sustainability? What are the most 
prominent actors in ecosystems to support sustainability during the post-pandemic era? 
How can ecosystem actors support entrepreneurs to build resilience and increase their 
impact in this new era?   
How can we design business models to support value capture from ecosystem services? 
How can the process be facilitated, organised, and governed? 
What work has been done thus far means for the topic of circularity and business models 
both for academia and practice, what issues have emerged along the way, and what issues 
remained untouched?  
Theme 2: exploring the sectoral and organizational levels 
How best to leverage data-driven business models to address environmental and societal 
challenges? Which are the critical complementarities in digital platforms and their 
corresponding ecosystems in emerging fields?  
What kind of tools and methods are needed for sustainable and circular business model 
experimentation? What are success and failure cases of experimentation, with reported 
sustainability impacts? 
What are the sustainable factors affecting the resilience of financial institutions and 
financial markets during the Covid-19 outbreak? How the digital and green transition 
contribute to innovate the transfer of financial resources in financial markets? 
Which characteristics should encompass an effective business model to create and capture 
value through Frugal innovation implementation? 
Theme 3: exploring organizational impact 
Which frameworks, for example from sustainability accounting or integrated reporting, can 
be applied to effectively assess and manage the sustainability performance of business 
models?  
Which best practices, in terms of assessing and managing the sustainability performance 
of organisations, business model patterns, and management accounting tools do we 
currently see in practice?  
How can socially and environmentally sustainable business models for the sharing economy 
be designed and implemented? Is it possible effectively to define strategies aimed at 
improving the sustainability performance of sharing economy business models? Can the 
social, economic and environmental impacts of existing sharing economy business models 
be measured, and how? 
What are the sustainable factors affecting the resilience of financial institutions and 
financial markets during the Covid-19 outbreak? 2) How the digital and green transition 
contribute to innovate the transfer of financial resources in financial markets? 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
10 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Theme 4: exploring theoretical and methodological foundations 
How to consolidate the available knowledge on sustainable business model patterns, and 
how to convert it into ‘knowledge for action’?  
Which methods are best suited to develop sustainable business model classifications, both 
typologies and taxonomies, or even whole ‘Alexandrian’ languages? How to test the 
effectiveness of sustainable business model patterns as an additional element of business 
model innovation tools? 
We invite participants from various disciplines (e.g., management, entrepreneurship, 
innovation, environmental studies, organization studies, design studies, change 
management, or policy studies) to address a broad variety of domains (e.g., energy, 
mobility, health, agriculture, food, tourism, finance, or retail) from a broad variety of 
perspectives (e.g., theoretical, conceptual, or empirical).  
References  
Dentchev, N., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, R., & Jonker, J. 
(2018). Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field of research 
and a future research agenda. Journal of cleaner production, 194, 695-703. 
Howard‐Grenville, J. (2020). Grand Challenges, Covid‐19 and the Future of Organizational 
Scholarship. Journal of Management Studies. 
Schumpeter, J. A. 1939. Business Cycle: a Theoretical, Historical and Statistical Analysis of the 
Capitalist Process. New York: McGraw-Hill. 
Schumpeter, J. A. (1949). Economic theory and entrepreneurial history. In Essays on entrepreneurs, 
innovations, business cycles and the evolution of capitalism. Joseph A. Schumpeter. (Ed by) 
Richard V. Clemence (1989). 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
11 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Conference Tracks 
Theme 1: Exploring the system level 
• 
Track 1.1: The role of Collaborative Business Models in creating Social and Economic 
Transition.  
Track chairs: Jan Jonker (Radboud University), Milou Derks and Frank Berkers (TNO)  
• 
Track 1.2: Ecosystems in Support of Sustainability. 
Track chairs: Nikolay Dentchev and Abel Diaz Gonzalez (Vrije University of Brussels, VUB) 
• 
Track 1.3: Natural Ecosystem Services as Drivers for Sustainable Business Model 
Development.  
Track chairs: Anna Hansson and Niklas Karlsson (Halmstad University) 
• 
Track 1.4: Business Models for a Circular Economy. 
Track chairs: Niels Faber (University of Groningen), Jan Jonker (Radboud University 
Nijmegen), Abhishek Agarwal (Edinburgh Napier University) 
Theme 2: Exploring the sectoral and organizational levels.  
• 
Track 2.1: Data-driven Business Models for Sustainability and Digital Transformation in 
Emerging Fields.  
Track chairs:  Maya Hoveskog, Magnus Holmén (Halmstad University) and Lauri Paavola, 
(Aalto University) 
• 
Track 2.2 Business Model Experimentation for Sustainability.  
Track chairs:  Nancy Bocken, Marc Dijk, Jan Konietzko (Maastricht University), Ilka 
Weissbrod, Leuphana (University Lüneburg), Maria Antikainen (VTT), Sveinung Jørgensen 
(NHH Norwegian School of Economics) and Lars Pedersen (NHH Norwegian School of 
Economics)  
• 
Track 2.3: New Business Models in an International Context. 
Track chairs: Svante Andersson, (Halmstad University) and Petri Ahokangas (University of 
Oulu) 
• 
Track 2.4: Resilience and Profitability through Sustainability for Financial 
Intermediaries, Markets and Corporate Finance. 
Track chairs: Claudio Giannotti, Giovanni Ferri, Lucia Gibilaro (LUMSA University)  
• 
Track 2.5: Sustainable Business models: Create and Capture Value through Frugal 
Innovation.  
Track Chairs: Alessia Pisoni (Insubria University), Francesca Ciulli (Tilburg University), 
Laura Michelini (LUMSA University), Hareem Arshad (University of Stuttgart) 
• 
Track 2.6: Sustainable Development. 
Track Chairs: Giovanni Battista Dagnino (LUMSA University), Francesca Cabiddu and 
Ludovica Moi (University of Cagliari) 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
12 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Theme 3: Exploring organizational impact 
• 
Track 3.1: Assessing and Managing the Sustainability Performance of Business 
Models. 
Track chairs: Florian Lüdeke-Freund (ESCP Business School) and Romana Rauter (University 
of Graz) 
• 
Track 3.2. New Business Models in Times of Crisis. 
Track chairs: Urtzi Uribetxebarria Andres Dorleta Ibarra Zuluaga, Leire 
Markuerkiaga Arritola (Mondragon University) 
• 
Track 3.3 Entrepreneurship for social inclusion: business modelling for impact. 
Track chairs: Filippo Giordano (LUMSA University) and Alessandro Lanteri (Hult 
International Business School), Lucia Marchegiani (Roma Tre University) 
• 
Track 3.4: Sharing economy business models for sustainability: design, 
functioning and impacts. 
Track chairs: Venere Sanna (Sapienza University), Cecilia Grieco (Sapienza 
University) and Trond Halvorsen (SINTEF) 
• 
Track 3.5: Responsible and sustainable production and consumption: the 
reduction of food loss and waste through new business models and circular 
economy. 
Track chairs: Ludovica Principato (Roma Tre University), Luca Secondi (University of 
Tuscia) 
Theme 4: Exploring theoretical and methodological foundations 
• 
Track 4.1: New Theoretical Foundations of Business Models for Sustainability as Social 
Action. 
Track chairs: Florian Lüdeke-Freund, Tobias Froese (ESCP Business School) 
• 
Track 4.2: Design Thinking, Actor Engagement, and Legitimation in the Context of 
Circular Business Model Innovation.  
Track chairs: Francesca Ostuzzi, Katrien Verleye, (Ghent University) and Fatima Khitous 
(University of Oulu) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
13 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 1.1 - The role of Collaborative 
Business Models in creating Social and 
Economic Transition 
Track chairs: Jan Jonker (Radboud University), Milou 
Derks and Frank Berkers (TNO) 
Our society and economy are in transition. Transitions have a fundamental impact on the 
way business operates. They lead to changes from organisation-centric business models to 
collaborative business models (CBM’s). These are business models in which multiple 
organizations participate to create mutually beneficial value propositions that foster 
sustainability. We link transition thinking to CBM’s as a means for enabling transition 
towards sustainability and circularity. We like to receive submissions addressing and 
analysing (ongoing) transition projects in which CBM’s play a crucial part.  
This track consists of 2 sessions: (a) a series of four presentations on CBM’s and (b) a 
discussion on the role of CBM’s in fostering transitions. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
14 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Collaboration Principles for Cascade 
Systems in a Regenerative Circular 
Economy 
 
Karen Janssen1,*, Aneel Kumar Ambavaram2, Sanne van den 
Dungen3 
1Avans University of Applied Sciences, Onderwijsboulevard 215, 5223 
DE 's-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands; 2Grameena Vikas Kendram 
Society for Rural Development, Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, 
India; 3 Yassasree B.V., Rietven 303, 5464 PK, Veghel, the 
Netherlands. 
* kl.janssen@avans.nl  
Abstract 
The current unsustainable production and use of cotton and textiles is exhausting the environment. 
The challenge is to recycle textiles several times, retaining or even creating value in each recycling 
step. Designing according to these principles can bring about a paradigm shift to a regenerative, 
circular economy. Cascades -a staircase model from high-quality applications to low(er)-quality 
applications- are an inherent part of the circular economy. Collaboration is recognized as key 
competency for implementing circular cascade design. By interviewing stakeholders at different 
phases in a collaboration, we explored collaboration principles in a cascade system. We conclude 
that collaboration principles require transparency, sharing and connecting. Partnerships start with 
an intrinsic motivation and a shared vision towards the regenerative circular system, using a holistic 
approach that puts humans and nature at its core. Learning collectively is important to do good as 
a system, in which the commonalities are trust and consciousness over suspicion. Co-creation over 
self-interest is important for sharing knowledge, resources, and materials. The individual business 
models of the partners become intertwined in a collaborative business model. Not one organisation 
is 'exclusively' in charge, a hybrid collective system is required: it alternates between specific 
contributions (own) and communalities (together). 
Keywords 
Regenerative Circular Economy, Collaborative Business Models, Cascade Principles, Value Chain 
Collaboration, System Change 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
15 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
1. Introduction 
The textile sector is the second most polluting sector in the world, after the gas and oil industries. 
Moreover, global production of clothing has doubled in the last 15 years. Clothing represents more 
than 60% of the total textile consumption in the world. The most widely used and best known 
renewable natural raw material for the Dutch textile industry is cotton. The current unsustainable 
production of cotton and textiles is exhausting the environment, due to use of artificial fertilizers 
and pesticides, large amounts of water consumption and high CO2 emissions. In addition, cotton 
farmers worldwide but especially in the Global South are under pressure and end up in vicious 
cycles of debt because of rising costs and falling yields. At the other end of the chain, the useful life 
of clothing has become even shorter. In the Netherlands, 60 percent of the discarded textiles end 
up in residual waste streams where they are burned. Of the collected textile, approximately half is 
suitable to be worn again, the rest are processed into low-value applications (like cleaning rags or 
isolation material) and are ultimately incinerated (Van der Wal and Verrips, 2019). Both the 
economic and sustainable improvement potential for making longer use of textiles that are already 
in circulation is therefore enormous. However, in common recycling, the quality of cotton declines 
with every (mechanical) recycling, because the fibre length becomes increasingly shorter. The 
challenge is to recycle several times, retaining or even creating value in each recycling step. 
Following the Cradle to Cradle® design framework, the ultimate goal is to return the raw materials 
safely to the biosphere as nutrition for the soil after which a new cascade can begin: a cycle in the 
form of regenerative cascades.  
Regenerative design is about asking yourself how many different forms of added value can be 
created for multiple parties (Raworth, 2017). Designing according to these principles can bring 
about a paradigm shift. This involves the transition from the linear, degenerative, take-make-waste 
economy to a regenerative, circular economy, focused on closing the resource loop and recovery. 
Few organizations can independently close a complete loop. Companies need to work together to 
establish a sustainable value system. Many organizations are struggling to adapt their existing 
business model or create new circular business models (Bocken et al., 2015). Our research 
investigates collaboration principles for a cascade system by designing collaborative business 
models in the transition towards a regenerative circular economy. This includes companies not only 
focusing on their own financial gains, but also considering the optimization of the entire system, 
aiming at a positive ecological and social impact. 
2. Theoretical framework 
Circular economy 
The transition to a circular economy is one of the necessary conditions to reach prosperity while 
protecting a live-able earth now and later (WCED, 1987). This concept is recognised by both 
academics and practitioners as a proposition to face today’s societal, economic and environmental 
challenges. According to McKinsey (2017), circular economy means creating 'a reliable way for 
industries to increase their profitability while reducing their dependence on natural resources'. 
Circular economy is defined as an economic and industrial system ‘where material loops are slowed 
and closed, and where value creation is aimed for at every chain in the system’ 
(EllenMacArthurFoundation, 2015). Circular systems ensure a constant flow of services and goods 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
16 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
without the need for new materials or raw materials, through different ‘value circles’ 
(EllenMacArthurFoundation, 2017; Jonker et al., 2018). A distinction is made here between the 
biological-cycle (e.g., cotton, wood) and the technical-cycle (e.g., plastics, metals). This was 
depicted by the EllenMacArthurFoundation (2015) in the well-known "butterfly diagram". 
 
 
FIGURE 1 THE "BUTTERFLY DIAGRAM" SOURCE: ELLEN MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (2015) 
The Cradle to Cradle® design framework, focuses on systems being restorative and regenerative by 
design (McDonough & Braungart, 2010). This can be in terms of materials, products, systems, and 
business models, in such way that they aim at reducing waste by focusing on restoration, reusing, 
and renewing (EllenMacArthurFoundation, 2013). Circular systems therefore always include efforts 
to optimize the use of raw materials, by reducing raw material use, reusing products and 
components, or recycling raw materials (Kirchherr et al., 2017). This repeated use of raw materials 
results in maximising reusability and minimising value destruction. For this, radical and systemic 
innovation is needed on the technical level as well as on the organisational level. 
Cascading 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
17 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Cascades represent a specific approach to the circular economy (EllenMacArthurFoundation, 2013; 
2017), which focusses on an innovative value system of resource management, aiming at extending 
product use-time and closing material cycles (Mair & Stern, 2017). Cascading is based on the 
principle of resource sequentially by using a material in multiple phases for different goals (Winans 
et al., 2017). Consumption may take place in this cycle (fertilisation, food, water) as long as the 
flows are not contaminated with toxic substances and ecosystems are not overloaded 
(EllenMacArthurFoundation, 2015; McDonough and Braungart, 2002). The power of the cascade 
refers to the 'diversification of reuse in the value chain' (WorldEconomicForum, 2014). During 
reuse, the quality of the material decreases. When the initial function of a product or material can 
no longer be fulfilled, the transformation (e.g. through recycling) to the next step in the cascade 
can take place. 
FIGURE 2 SEQUENTIAL UTILIZATION OF RESOURCES (SIRKIN, & VAN HOUTEN, 1994) 
Therefore, recycling within the biological-cycle may occur in the form of regenerative cascades: a 
staircase model from high-quality applications to low(er)-quality applications as a result of 
(mechanical) recycling and unavoidable quality loss, in which the products and material can 
ultimately safely return to the biosphere as a nutrient (Mair, & Stern, 2017; Sirkin, & Van Houten, 
1994). Cascades, even though they are an inherent part of the circular economy, are not yet widely 
practiced and/or thoroughly understood. 
Inter-organizational collaboration 
Collaboration is recognized as key competency for implementing a circular design (Sumter et al, 
2020). Brown at al., (2019) indicate that a high level of collaboration supports more system 
innovation. Collaboration has a lot of benefits, like increasing knowledge flows, better access to 
resources and new markets, sharing risks, possibly bigger market share and more competitive 
advantage. This all could lead to better company performance. Collaboration is also needed to 
exchange materials because within a circular economy one company’s waste is another company’s 
input (Pinheiro et al., 2018). But on the other hand, there are disadvantages to collaborations such 
as loss of control, opportunistic behaviour, and trust issues (Brown et al., 2019). 
Innovation processes create more leverage for change than other processes within the 
organisation. These innovation processes need to outreach collaboration in a chain, it requires 
decisive and conscious sharing of resources and risks by all stakeholders, and transparency and trust 
are essential (Janssen and Stel, 2018). Inter-organizational collaboration is needed to create new 
business models which focus on closing the loops. This means that extending the resource’s 
lifecycle is possible when different actors in a production chain collaborate. This way of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
18 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
collaboration is considered to be a key element in closing the loops and therefore critical for 
realizing a circular economy (Bocken et al., 2016). It is important to include all stakeholders when 
aiming to close loops (Korhonen et al., 2018).  
Collaborative business models 
Circular business models are networked by nature: they require collaboration, communication and 
coordination within complex networks of various and different actors and stakeholders (Antikainen 
& Valkokari, 2016). By working together and truly joining forces, companies in the value system can 
increase their positive impact for all actors, society and the environment. Communities are formed 
in which knowledge and ideas can be shared, exchanged and created (Jonker et al., 2018). 
Organizations need to reconsider how they maximise multiple values in product design and use of 
materials to decrease the usage of natural resources and create sustainable impact (Kraaijenhagen 
et al., 2016). For this, business models need to be shaped by different actors as a collective 
endeavour, referred to as collaborative business model. The collaborative nature of a business 
model means that both for the network as well as for the different stakeholders, the business model 
must create added value (Kraaijenbrink et al., 2019). In these collaboration-based business models, 
it is important that the value range includes the full spectrum of activities, carried out by different 
stakeholders, since the product continually circulates and creates value in the system (Rohrbeck at 
al., 2013; Fogarassy & Finger, 2020). Collaborative business modelling is a process in which parties 
jointly examine whether their partnership can create multiple value and design on a business 
model, or logic, by which the partnership wants to create value. It shows what the participating 
partners do, what matters for whom, what it takes to realise that and what yields are gained. Many 
organisations struggle to adapt their existing business model or create new circular business models 
(Bocken et al., 2015; Antikainen and Valkokari, 2016). The concept of collaborative business model 
development seems very promising, but more research is needed to operationalise it. Bocken et 
al., (2021) emphasize the need for deeper analysis within disciplines, as well as the need for trans-
disciplinary experimentation with circular business models. To move towards a regenerative 
cascade, several new principles of entrepreneurship need to be developed. These collaboration 
principles include other ways of working, organizing, doing business, earning, collaborating, and 
creating value. This means that organizations have to 'rethink' how they organise their business, 
which involves a movement towards an economy that no longer sees humans and nature as a 
resource, but as a partner in creating well-being for everyone in harmony with the earth (Spaas, 
2020). We explored the innovative collaboration principles of collaborative business models in a 
cascade system. 
3. Method 
Research design 
The current literature on cascading and collaborative business models is still limited. An explorative 
case study approach is chosen to gain insight into these new concepts that are still explorative and 
not looked into that much (Symon, & Cassell, 2012). We used a case study approach with semi-
structured interviews since this provides the opportunity to ask ‘why’- and ‘how’- questions and get 
a thorough and in-depth overview of a situation. We organized two rounds of semi-structured 
interviews with six partners of a research consortium (farmer supporting organization, textile 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
19 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
producers and recyclers) to explore how they collaborate. On a small, but intensive and in-depth 
scale, we discussed which aspects these stakeholders considered important directly at the start of 
the project and again six months after the start. In these six months, we organized five online 
workshops on different themes (cascading, logistics & transparency, values & impact, business 
modelling) to gain more insights into their roles, influences and decision-making criteria, while 
drawing the cascade using a design research approach ('doing', 'harvesting what goes well' and 
'developing and shaping'). Interviews and workshops were recorded, transcribed and coded for 
exploring the business principles, using the four building blocks of supply chain collaboration. 
Case: circular cotton cascade 
This research is part of a two-year project (raak.mkb13.020), in which Dutch companies (especially 
SMEs) from the entire textile chain are working together with Indian companies to design and 
record the process of a regenerative, circular system in which cotton is reused multiple times before 
it finally returns safely to the biosphere. Together with Avans University of Applied Sciences, the 
consortium is exploring and designing collaborative business model scenarios for this cascade 
system. The cascade starts with virgin cotton and continues in the following applications: 
workwear, T-shirt, hand towel and landscape fabric, to ultimately return safely to the biosphere. 
The focus is both on research into the technical feasibility of the cotton fibre and on the 
development of collaborative business models. 
FIGURE 3 CIRCULAR COTTON CASCADE 
Tool for Supply Chain Collaboration 
Leising et al., (2018) have developed a conceptual framework for studying circularity in supply chain 
collaboration in the construction environment, using the four building blocks: (I) future vision, (II) 
Joint Learning, (III) Network Dynamics and (IV) Business Model. Our findings have been categorised 
according to the conceptual framework for circular economy in chain collaboration (Leising et al., 
2018) that has been elaborated into a steppingstone tool for the design of collaborative business 
models (Janssen et al., 2020). 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
20 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE 4: A STEPPINGSTONE TOOL FOR COLLABORATIVE BUSINESS MODELS (JANSSEN ET AL., 2020) 
3. Findings 
Circular economy and Cascading 
In a collaboration, it is important that the partners have the same understanding of the concepts 
they are working on. Respondents were asked to define ‘Circular Economy’ and ‘Cascading’ In the 
first round of interviews, respondents defined circular economy based on concepts including 
‘reusing or recycling products that have reached their end-of-life, in the same functionalities’, 
‘moving away from linear to repeated use’ and ‘waste becomes a new raw material, in order to 
reduce the production of new materials’. The respondents indicated that the term cascading was 
new to them and was still rather vague to them: ‘it has to do with multiple recycling’. They explained 
that cotton fibres are being affected by use (wearing) and recycling (tearing) and that the quality of 
the material decreased when using it. They also explained that different products ask for a different 
quality standard of the fibre and that cascading is about adjusting the value and application 
In step ‘I Vision’, partners discuss their visions on 
circular possibilities. Partners need to agree on what 
they want to achieve and define their ‘point on the 
horizon’. Defining a vision provides coordination 
between the partners and provides guidance and 
orientation on the joint actions and collective goals. 
Future visions contribute to the transition to a circular 
construction sector, for example, through pilot projects 
and demonstrations that showcase the potential gains. 
 
In step ‘II Joint Learning’, partners share information 
that individuals assimilate and apply in subsequent 
actions for themselves. First-order learning leads to 
new insights about options for a particular challenge 
and context, whereas higher-order learning can change 
problem definitions, norms, values, beliefs and goals of 
actors. The latter is necessary to implement radically 
new sustainable solutions and to support required 
change processes. 
In step ‘III Network Dynamics’ participants will find out how they are linked to each other. 
Organisations, companies and individuals are connected through different types of relationships. 
The connections not only arise from a technological transition but are also social. On the one hand, 
partners look at how they are connected based on their essential contributions to the project, and on 
the other hand, partners contemplate their relationship in terms of (1) strategic elements, (2) 
cooperation elements in shared activities and (3) cultural elements such as trust and transparency. 
 
In step ‘IV Business Model’, partners will redesign their business models. This redesign is essential 
for creating ecological and social value. A circular business model is defined as the rationale to 
create, deliver and capture value with and within closed material loops. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
21 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
accordingly. All respondents indicated that cascades are therefore about quality: ‘what chain can 
we invent and build from the material, to use the raw material for a new end product with a lower 
quality, instead of throwing it away?’. 
In the second round of interviews, the concept of circular economy was described in more detail 
and was much more aligned between the partners. Almost all partners included the role of design 
in their definitions: ‘infinite cycle of material in which everything is raw material for a new product; 
according to Cradle to Cradle® design, there is no waste’. In addition, they all used elements related 
to a journey of the raw material in a flow in which it is used in various forms related to the ‘end-of-
use’ of the material in different forms of application. Respondents indicate that they have to 
explore if they need to ‘influence usage time in order to find the highest value of products in the 
cascade in relation to quality’. Respondents also empathised that cascading therefore has to do 
with ‘collaboration’. Together they need to look at possibilities by asking each other questions 
about the 2nd and 3rd processing step in a much more advanced way: ‘I have the feeling that 
companies are looking at the bigger picture, it is challenging but it can be done’. Respondents stress 
the importance of doing it together, beyond a spear of loops, and tune in to details: ‘humans 
interact as businesses, they go in diverging directions, need to figure out a way to realign to a new 
economy’. Respondents also addressed the technical challenges in the cascade. They explicitly 
addressed the need for transparency to assure that ‘the cotton is really the cascade fibre that is 
going around in the system’ and question if this fibre needs to be blending with other grades to get 
the best products, like blending short and long fibres to pick up the quality standards. 
System innovation 
In the first round, respondents indicated that the current non-sustainable production of cotton, the 
soil and the cotton plants are intensively exposed to chemicals and pesticides. Respondents 
acknowledged that the system is not acceptable because of exploitation and power disbalance in 
the chain. They indicate that the system needs to innovate to a more conscious one about the 
material, the production and processing, the equality in the chain in relation to value creation. 
Consumers need to respect and value cotton fibres more and become aware that textile is not a 
disposable product. 
In the second round, respondents indicate the last step as being the most innovative. The material 
is still of high-quality value. The partnership is working towards something that can be put into the 
ground that does not yet exist and created additional added value for what a material can do there: 
‘the landscape fabric can also be a carrier of fertilisers, prevent weed growth, cope with weather 
conditions, retain water, reflect the sun’. Next to the technological feasibility of the material based 
on quality, the collaboration is also indicated as innovative. Partners refer to the challenge but also 
in cooperation between partners. Everyone functions on their own, but the challenge is to link 
everyone to each other: ‘companies often work in a black box, where everything is shielded, and 
here, the anonymity has to come out, and it has to be open and transparent’. 
Vision 
The partnership started working together on textile recycling, with the ambition to help the sector 
move forward. The initiator of this concept (Dutch SME Yassasree B.V.) put the various pieces of 
the puzzle together, while having a good picture of what the partners were doing and proposed to 
work together on something concrete, like this cotton cascade. Participants indicated that they 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
22 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
wanted to learn how to preserve the quality of products as long as possible. They were curious 
about learning what the partners in the cooperation are up against and how to deal with challenges 
that arise. Respondents share a motivation to change, since they all have seen poor working 
conditions and bad environmental impact. They all share the intention to be better in the triple top 
line of social, ecological and economical value creation. In addition, they strive to make an impact 
by changing behaviour, creating awareness that ‘waste’ can be used in different loops and 
showcasing that it actually can be done. Respondents indicate that for passing on these multiple 
values, collaboration is necessary. Here they refer to the main challenge of a cascade system: ‘how 
to manage the logistics moving across the different layers of the cascade and how manage and align 
the desires and the needs?’. Respondents know that they are still individual business that aim to 
co-create in a harmonised working relationship. They recognize that they need collective thinking 
in how they are dealing with this new concept, including a lot of uncertainties and assumptions, at 
a rather rigours pragmatic way. 
After half a year, respondents elaborated more on the concept of collaboration and multiple value 
creation. They realised that it is more than the sum of its parts and that it is more about 
orchestrating the whole system. Although the concept becomes clearer, the concept also cranks up 
questions on the how. They gained more insights in innovative ways to move from a linear to a 
circular economy by learning about the possibilities and how to connect to others while making a 
positive impact. They honour the variety: ‘it was an eye-opener that some look differently at things 
or use a different approach to challenges’. The partners realised that each partner is at a different 
point in the transition to a circular economy: ‘some partners have great ideas that further sprouts, 
people observe and embrace those pioneers to learn’. Respondents feel that it is important to 
increase the magnitude by learning and developing. They created awareness of sustainability in 
their own organization by explaining the concept and picked up topics outside the project to 
improve their own business, but also to set an example for the industry. The partnership aims to 
showcase the importance of collaboration for the long term with multiple players. 
 
 
Actor learning 
At the start, respondents expected that knowledge sharing in a cascade will exceed normal 
collaboration. Although the project proposal looked solid, it all depends on the way partners are 
working together and the level of trust: ‘we start with a good basis of trust, which need to grow 
further’. The respondents indicate that it is important that the partners communicate with each 
other in a transparent manner and that they respect each other in order to maintain a good level 
of trust for sharing knowledge. Respondents indicate that they have to learn from each other on 
design and materiality for re-use. 
After six months, respondents indicated that they learned a lot from sharing experiences with each 
other. They gained more clarity on the roles and strategies of the other partners. Some respondents 
indicated that they now realised that quality is an extra dimension for connecting to each other: 
‘we are learning on standards, and we now raised the bar’. For others, the learning could be 
approached more radically in designing the innovation: ‘we could have moved faster, but it takes 
time to align, we know that we now can be more effective, we are grateful and ambitious’. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
23 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Respondents still see a challenge in cooperation as the cascade is quite ambitious and priorities 
need to be aligned. For this, the partnership should not ask for guarantees, but give space to fail 
and learn. They stress the importance of feeling the connection and providing feedback. During the 
collaboration, partners shared experiences and content knowledge to gain insights into each 
other's companies and processes and realise the importance of commitment, involvement and 
ownership in the cascade: ‘I think, we can always find a way around technology, but I am curious 
about how to achieve an equivalent cooperation’. 
Network dynamics 
At start, respondents indicate that cascade systems include enormous dependencies in supply and 
demand related to the position and role in the system. They point out that trust and respect are 
important for knowledge sharing. Partners have to find out to what extent they are ‘going to share 
the recipe and give each other insight into their kitchen’. Some refer to the challenge of balancing 
between open and exclusive data and protecting information while bringing the cascade a step 
further. They indicate that it is important to have contracts to define what is confidential and what 
information can be commonly shared. Partners have the intention to draw up an agreement about 
how they want to work together by simple norms and values, based on the principles of conscious 
contracting. In the partnership agreement, the contributions in hours and money are fixed, but 
details on how to deal with trust still needed to be worked out: ‘what happens if someone does not 
comply, or runs off with money or knowledge?’. Respondents indicated that they need to balance 
between control mechanisms and alignment by forcing each other to be open and transparent 
about sharing risks, profit goals and motivations . They think that this will further increase the level 
of trust and lowers the need to control, since negativity grows from distrust. Furthermore, they 
have dependencies with partners outside the project. They feel that it is important to create a level 
of involvement with their customers as well. Challenges refer to meeting the quality standards 
further down in the cascade: ‘requirements are set for input streams and one of the biggest 
challenge is to match expectations on quality of fibre’ and to tracking and tracing the product during 
its journey. Respondents indicate that it is important that dedicated partners support the system 
in an overall cooperation. 
After half a year, respondents indicate again that everyone has a crucial role in participation and 
that collaboration is crucial: ‘we have a mix of companies, and we need to work with the capacity 
and boundaries of each other’. Some respondents emphasised the importance of interpretation 
and nuances: ‘we are on the verge of sharing details: what value and impact we can make is 
determined by making choices’. Respondents indicate that it helped to do exercises to get out of 
comfort zones and to take small steps when making it more concrete for own business. They 
acknowledge that honest sharing of challenges can help make them more tangible and contribute 
to collectively solving them. In this respect, respondents also refer to the role of government that 
need to set circular requirements to products (e.g. amount of recycled material) and the Extended 
Producer Responsibility (EPR). This means that textile producers become responsible for the 
collection, sorting, recycling and waste processing of products they bring onto the Dutch market. 
Moreover, respondents indicated that they have a quite good connection to the other partners, 
since they all share the same intension. Partners are open for cross-communication about 
experiences and feel confidence that sharing is good: ‘making it concrete helps in understanding 
how it could be done, what we encounter’. At the same time, some respondents indicated that it 
might take more energy to start really working together. They indicated that they are prepared to 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
24 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
share more details and be open to changing possible steps in the current process. Some 
respondents also indicated that parallel collaborations arose on textile flows outside this cascade. 
Partners are learning more about the input streams of the others or technical requirements of the 
end products. Respondents specified the need to clearly communicate about expectations of the 
end product. Partners have to formulate concrete boundaries on this: ‘we need to set go and no-
goes, what do we find important and what do we agree on?’ Trust in this is complex. Partners wish 
to protect aspects, but at the same time they know they need each other to make it happen. The 
feel that promoting honesty in expectations contributes to empathy and open behaviour in an 
ethical way. 
Business model 
Respondents were asked to describe the value proposition at the start of the project: ‘value is 
created in different steps in the cascade, each step has a unique value that we want to deliver to 
the customers’. Next to that, they referred to aspects like: ‘focussing on being less mean to nature, 
less waste, less negative impact but creating positive impact’. Respondents indicate at the same 
time that the biggest challenge is collaborating in a co-creating system: ‘it's about cooperation: 
looking forward and backward, we don't throw things from one to another'. Respondents stressed 
the importance of achieve the common goal by thinking and acting in terms of the collective instead 
of the individual. Respondents highlighted they need to go beyond everyone doing their own thing, 
they approached it as a win-win-win leading to advancing the development and moving these 
processes from exception to the rule: ‘it is in its cradle, everything is possible, but at the same time, 
nothing is possible.  
Another part of the value proposition focuses on the wish to tell the story of the cascade, as a 
conscious process with efficient use of material, leading to a positive impact on human and nature, 
both at the beginning as well as at the end of the chain. By sharing the narrative, respondents intend 
to inspire others in the textile sector and also others in other sectors. For this, they indicate that 
the narrative needs to be shared in a simple way, not in technical jargon to make it understandable 
for everyone. 
In relation to multiple value creation, respondents indicate the triple top line to be important at all 
levels: (1) ecological, such as not working with toxic material, (2) social, like equally paying attention 
to all partners and respecting cultural aspects and (3) economical, like a fair distribution. Related to 
this allocation of investments and return on investments, the respondents indicate that they have 
not thought about that. They mainly want to learn: ‘this project is for learning, not for earning’. 
When thinking about an allocation key, some respondents think about putting all the ingredients 
together, make the cake and then divide it in pieces, based on transparency per recycling step: ‘we 
have to look at the basics; what is happening, who has risks, what responsibilities, resources, 
intellectual value and bring it all to the table’. They indicate the need to brainstorm about what is 
acceptable.  
After half a year, respondents further specified the value proposition as ‘offering controlled 
material flows through all layers of diverging products’. They referred to the system that brings four 
products to the market in a fully circular manner, by a supply chain that is taken responsibility, 
starting with farming conditions and taking care of the soil in India, towards collaborating to 
connect ‘end of use’ products from different qualities in an extended loop. Respondents also 
included elements related to backwards and forwards control. They realised that the value 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
25 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
proposition is larger than the business perspective: ‘we think of new BM with a broader range of 
stakeholders, including a layer of 2nd stakeholders and stakeholder beyond human’. Respondents 
again stressed that collaboration is key to making it work: ‘we are far away from the end-user, and 
those are the ones that we are doing it for, but there are many links in between that. We need how 
to get to the end consumer, here is what can increase it’. In this system, the respondents addressed 
that is it about a collective system, in which each partner is having its own value proposition which 
is enlarged by the added value of the cascade: ‘we draw the cascade from the I to the We, the 
added value is in the collaboration’. Some respondents also indicate that a partner universe and 
impact matrix can contribute to how to allocate investments and return on investments: ‘in an 
Utopian world, we put all value on the table at a fair and transparent way, and make an equitability 
distribution’. Others think that they have to divide sales, according to a fair allocation key among 
the 4 steps of the cascade, in which the added value can be included as flexible distribution key. 
Respondents all think that it will be a difficult process since what is good, fair or acceptable might 
be different for everyone. 
5. Conclusion and Discussion 
Collaboration principles 
Cascading is based on the principle of resource sequentially by using a material in multiple phases 
for different goals Designing according to these principles can bring about a paradigm shift. This 
involves the transition from the linear, degenerative, take-make-waste economy to a regenerative, 
circular economy, focused on closing the resource loop and recovery. We investigated collaboration 
principles for a cascade system by designing collaborative business models in the transition towards 
a regenerative circular economy. 
Holistic approach 
The cotton cascade aims at re-using and recycling from the onset, starting with regenerative cotton 
production. Regenerative agriculture goes beyond “less bad” and focuses, inspired by nature, on 
how to regenerate, restore and nurture. Regenerative cotton often goes beyond organic cotton 
practices and turns cotton, often seen as a culprit, into a driver of positive impact. An intrinsic 
motivation and shared vision to this closed loop system in which the raw material is ultimately given 
back to the soil is important. A holistic approach to agricultural systems puts humans and nature at 
its core.  
Organising the collaboration 
The partnership started to work together from the perspective to learn about technologies and 
applications to develop a sequence of re-using materials in different applications in a cascade 
system. While working together, the learning perspective moved to learning about how to organise 
the supply chain and the collaboration. Collaboration is seen as a necessity but also as the greatest 
challenge. 
Collective learning 
The network consists of a co-creating system in which the commonalities are trust and 
consciousness over suspicion. The stakeholders aim to learn collectively to do good as a system. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
26 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Creating an open and transparent environment, with a good basis of trust, is important for sharing 
knowledge, resources, and materials. A linear economy is purely transactional., for the cascade the 
entrepreneurial attitude is different. Specifically, when aspects are not sure, it is important to not 
give up. Regularly discussing and aligning expectations contributes to overcoming challenges. New 
and innovative ideas can be discovered during open brainstorms, with actors in their own supply 
chain, but also with other actors outside the partnership. A supportive network is needed to realise 
the cascades. 
Mapping the partner universe 
In a circular cascade system, everything is a resource for something else. Mapping the partners' 
universe contributes to defining dependencies and identifying inputs and outputs to realise a 
controlled downcycle process and define leakages. Knowing your partners contributes to acquiring 
new information to extend viewpoints create new knowledge, and also to acquire new resources 
and materials. NGOs and government need to be involved to set up a broader system. This also 
includes also to give a voice to non-human stakeholders through representatives to check whether 
it is also positive for them. 
Positive impact 
By visualising all impacts, systems move away from an anonymous chain. Dependencies become a 
positive force to create a positive impact on the triple top line of sustainability: ecological, 
economic, and social. At the ecological level learning to respect the processing of the raw material 
is important. At the social level, allowing regenerative agriculture contributes to pioneering how to 
take better care of the land and to respecting and valuing farmer communities. 
Balance between control mechanisms and openly sharing 
Mentioned multiple times, a basis of trust is crucial in collaboration. This trust originates from 
previous experiences or from openly sharing expectations and being honest about intentions from 
the start. Nevertheless, still, agreements or contracts with clear statements on specific aspects of 
ownership are desirable to protect exclusive or confidential information. In innovative 
collaboration, partners always have to fear that ideas are shamelessly taken and question how to 
deal with protection. It appears to be important to articulate concerns and define the boundaries. 
Partners need to set the do’s and don’ts in an open and empathic process based on shared ethics. 
Intertwined business models 
In a cascade system, the individual business models of the different stakeholders become 
intertwined in a collaborative business model. This means that choices made in different parts of 
the system have a direct or indirect effect on all involved in the system. In this, it is a challenge to 
allocate investments and returns on investments. Brainstorm about a fair allocation key, in which 
the added value is included as flexible distribution key, contributes to developing a fair system. This 
is a difficult process since what is good, fair or acceptable might be different for everyone. The 
importance of organising a balanced distribution of multiple value creation for all actors in the 
system is also stressed by Kirton et al. (2014). However, if a partnership manages to achieve a 
balanced allocation of resources, opportunities, basic needs and usage and property rights 
(Valente, 2012) collaborative business models are more likely to be viable and remain robust. 
Collective system 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
27 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
In sum, business principles for a cascade system require transparency, sharing and connecting. 
Trust over suspicion. Co-creation over self-interest. Pre-competitive collaboration agreements are 
an important part of this. To create value in these areas, not one organisation is 'exclusively' in 
charge, but cooperation in a system is required. The collective system is hybrid: it alternates 
between specific contributions (own) and communalities (together). 
Acknowledgement 
The research is made possible with the SIA grant: RAAK.MKB13.020. We would like to take this 
opportunity to thank the consortium for participating in our research. We also thank the graduate 
students involved in this project for their contribution to data collection and reporting. 
References 
Antikainen, M., & Valkokari, K. (2016). Framework for sustainable circular business model innovation. 
Technology Innovation Management Review, 6(7), 5-12. 
Bocken, N. M. P., Rana, P., & Short, S. W. (2015). Value mapping for sustainable business thinking. Journal of 
Industrial and Production Engineering, 32(1), 67-81 
Bocken, N. M., Fil, A., & Prabhu, J. (2016). Scaling up social businesses in developing markets. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 139, 295-308. 
Bocken, N. M., Weissbrod, I., & Antikainen, M. (2021). Business model experimentation for the circular 
economy: definition and approaches. Circular Economy and Sustainability, 1(1), 49-81.  
Brown, P., Bocken, N., & Balkenende, R. (2019). Why do companies pursue collaborative circular oriented 
innovation?. Sustainability, 11(3), 635. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2017). A new textiles economy: redesigning fashion’s future. Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation, 1-150. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2015). Towards a circular economy: Business rationale for an accelerated 
transition. 
Fogarassy, C., & Finger, D. (2020). Theoretical and Practical Approaches of Circular Economy for Business 
Models and Technological Solutions, Resource, 9(6), 76 
Janssen, K. L., & Stel, F. (2018). Collaboration in circular innovative business models: changing roles in 
partnerships. In ISPIM Conference Proceedings. The International Society for Professional Innovation 
Management (ISPIM) 
Janssen, K.L., Schultheiss, F. van Son, H (2020). The shared vision paradox in collaborative business model 
development., In ISPIM Conference Proceedings. The International Society for Professional 
Innovation Management (ISPIM) 
Jonker, J., Stegeman, H., & Faber, N. (2018). De circulaire economie: denkbeelden, ontwikkelingen en business 
modellen-2018 update. 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D., & Hekkert, M. (2017). Conceptualizing the circular economy: An analysis of 114 
definitions. Resources, conservation and recycling, 127, 221-232. 
Korhonen, J., Honkasalo, A., & Seppälä, J. (2018). Circular economy: the concept and its limitations. Ecological 
economics, 143, 37-46. 
Kraaijenbrink, J., Oskam, I., & van Wegen, B. (2019). Samen waarde creëren: een gids voor open collaborative 
business modelling. 
Kraaijenhagen, C., van Oppen, C., & Bocken, N. (2016). Circular business: collaborate and circulate. 
Kriron, D., Kruschwiz, N., Reeves, M., and Goh, E. (2013). The Benefits of Sustainability-Driven Innovation. 
MIT Sloan Management Review, 54(2), 69-73. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
28 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Leising, E., Quist, J., & Bocken, N. (2018). Circular Economy in the building sector: Three cases and a 
collaboration tool. Journal of Cleaner production, 176, 976-989. 
Mair, C., & Stern, T. (2017). Cascading utilization of wood: a matter of circular economy?. Current Forestry 
Reports, 3(4), 281-295. 
McDonough, W., & Braungart, M. (2010). Cradle to cradle: Remaking the way we make things. North point 
press. 
McKinsey (2017) Mapping the benefits of a circular economy. McKinsey Quarterly 
Pinheiro, M.A., Seles, B.M., de Camargo Fiorini, P., Jugend, D., Lopes de Sousa Jabbour, A.B., da Silva, H.M., & 
Latan, H. (2019). The role of new product development in underpinning the circular economy. 
Management Decision. 
Raworth, K. (2017). Doughnut economics: seven ways to think like a 21st-century economist. Chelsea Green 
Publishing. 
Rohrbeck, R., Konnertz, L., & Knab, S. (2013). Collaborative business modelling for systemic and sustainability 
innovations. International Journal of Technology Management, 63(1/2), 4-23. 
Silva, H. M. R., & Latan, H. (2019). The role of new product development in underpinning the circular 
economy: A systematic review and integrative framework. Management Decision. 
Sirkin, T., & ten Houten, M. (1994). The cascade chain: a theory and tool for achieving resource sustainability 
with applications for product design. Resources, conservation and recycling, 10(3), 213-276. 
Spaas, G. (ed) (2020). Rethinking Entrepreneurship, Indruk, 03, Expertisecentrum Sustainable Business, Avans 
Hogeschool, Breda. 
Sumter, D., de Koning, J., Bakker, C., & Balkenende, R. (2020). Circular economy competencies for design. 
Sustainability, 12(4), 1561 
Symon, G., & Cassell, C. (2012). Qualitative organizational research: core methods and current challenges. 
Sage. 
Termeer, C. J., & Dewulf, A. (2019). A small wins framework to overcome the evaluation paradox of governing 
wicked problems. Policy and Society, 38(2), 298-314 
Valente, M (2012). Theorizing Firm Adoption of Sustaincentrism. Organization Studies, 33(4), 563-591. 
Van der Wal, E. and Verrips, A. (2019) Textiel als secundaire grondstof, Centraal Planbureau. 
WCED; World Commission on Environment and Development. Our Common Future. Oxford and New York: 
Oxford University Press, 1987 
Winans, K., A. Kendall & H. Deng (2017). The history and current applications of the circular economy concept. 
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 68, pp. 825-833. 
World Economic Forum (2014) Towards the Circular Economy. Accelerating the scale-up across global supply 
chains. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
29 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
From citizen initiative to a multi-actor 
business model 
Conditions and context for successful development and 
implementation of a community-based eHealth business model aimed 
at positive health promotion in neighborhood communities  
Marlies Koers-Stuiver1, Timber Haaker1 
1Saxion University of Applied Sciences  
* d.m.koers@saxion.nl 
+ This research is co-financed by Regieorgaan SIA, part of the Netherlands Organization for 
Scientific Research (NWO)” and with a PPP allowance made available by Health-Holland, Top 
Sector Life Sciences & Health, to encourage public-private partnerships. 
Abstract 
Our practice-based research provides an exciting opportunity to advance our understanding of 
stakeholders’ active participation in collaborative value creation and new organizational forms. This 
paper describes the preliminary findings and experiences of a participatory action research 
project’s first phase to distill the success factors and impediments in establishing a multi-actor, 
community-based business model focusing on positive health promotion by using eHealth. With 
this first phase, our objective is to establish a shared view on the participatory action research’s 
design and denote the emerging themes to take on collaborative action. Moreover, by using a 
scoping review, we aim to defragment the literatures from various domains relating to multi-actor, 
community-based business models and the formalization of citizen initiatives and synthesize these 
findings.  
To collect the data, we are using a mixed-method approach. We use a Participatory Action Research 
(PAR) design and follow a citizen initiative in-depth. This paper reports our multiple activities to 
date to co-create the PAR-design to be used and prepare and conduct our scoping review. The 
research question guiding this is: how to collaboratively set up the Participatory Action Research 
Design to accelerate a local citizen initiative’s business model development process by empirically 
validating the conditions that influence multi-actor, community-based business models focusing on 
eHealth? 
We trust that these outcomes will contribute to synthesizing and mapping the various literatures 
to contribute to a more holistic overview of the various conditions when developing collaborative 
eHealth business models. Likewise, the outcomes of this collaborative process will be useful for 
further research as well, as it highlights the interdependencies in such a multidimensional and 
complex process.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
30 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Keywords  
Scoping review, eHealth, multi-actor business models, community-based, positive health 
promotion, PAR 
Introduction  
There is an urgent need for solutions and business models that address major social issues and 
challenges. Healthcare is one of those domains needing innovative solutions due to a lack of 
inclusivity, accessibility, self-management, and increasing cost due to demographic and aging 
populations (Broerse & Bunders-Aelen, 2010; Johansen & van den Bosch, 2017; Ross et al., 2016). 
These threats put the current system under pressure, resulting in even more health inequality. 
There is a demand for preventive healthcare solutions to address issues that threaten the 
healthcare system’s long-term sustainability (Broerse & Bunders-Aelen, 2010; Johansen & van den 
Bosch, 2017). It is, therefore, increasingly argued that the system has become inefficient and that 
it needs to be more local and people-oriented. This challenges equally the way we organize health 
care and results in new business models that address these issues. A promising way forward may 
lie in multi-actor community-based preventive eHealth business models. Especially business models 
that create an ecosystem where relevant stakeholders co-create value within their community 
(Lumpkin & Bacq, 2019). For (e)health transitions to succeed, local community engagement is vital 
(Cyril et al., 2015) and can help to overcome commercialization challenges (Menko et al., 2013; Oh 
et al., 2005). In addition, adapting tools to articulate and meet end-users’ needs is often challenging. 
Ethical and legal boundaries, the design choices, and the stakeholders' various interests within a 
network add to the contextual complexity. Different scenarios and interactions result in 
uncertainty, making it unclear how to address the plurality of ambitions and establish long-term 
financial and/or societal sustainability. These developments result in a need to map how this affects 
the value reciprocity between the actors in a network, and how to act in accordance and learn from 
this.   
Essential for the successful commercialization of innovations is their surrounding social system 
(Groen, 2005) and the stakeholders in the network (Aarikka-Stenroos et al., 2014). The 
collaboration of stakeholders to create value can take many forms, such as multi-actor business 
models, network business models, ecosystem business models, and cooperatives, whereby the 
collaboration may or may not aim for multiple and reciprocal value creation  (Boumans et al., 2015; 
Lumpkin & Bacq, 2019; Menko et al., 2013; Oh et al., 2005; Oliveira et al., 2015; Phillips et al., 2015; 
Ross et al., 2016; Saebi et al., 2019; Shepherd et al., 2019; van Limburg et al., 2011). There is a lack 
of research on developing collaborative business models focusing on eHealth and how to manage 
the multi-actor complexity involved (Gjellebæk et al., 2020; van Limburg et al., 2011). This indicates 
a lack of clear conceptualization and shows that the literature is fragmented. Therefore, our 
objective is to research the process to find the combination of conditions that may result in the 
successful implementation of a multi-actor business model focusing on eHealth in neighborhood 
communities and whether these conditions will change over time. We use Participatory Action 
Research (PAR) to develop a multi-actor community-based business model that focuses on positive 
health behavior in a local community in the Netherlands. The research question guiding this paper 
is:  how to collaboratively set up the Participatory Action Research Design to accelerate a local 
citizen initiative's business model development process by empirically validating the conditions that 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
31 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
influence multi-actor, community-based business models focusing on eHealth? Distinguishing and 
defining elements in this research are the collaborative relations of the various stakeholders, e.g., 
the multidimensionality, complexity of the contextual elements, and empowerment and 
emancipatory engagement in collective problem-solving who are working together towards 
implementing the eHealth technology through a business model. As the problems related to the 
implementation of eHealth solutions are multi-level and complex (Ross et al., 2016), and the citizen 
initiatives objective is to enhance learning by increasing their knowledge and skills in developing a 
business model (i.e., changing the current practice), a PAR design is justified (Cargo & Mercer, 2008; 
McTaggart, 1991). We use a mixed-methods approach to collect and analyze the data.  Close 
collaboration with the researchers and stakeholders and the insights derived from this scoping 
review will help derive the analysis conditions. 
The outcomes of this scoping review contribute to synthesizing and mapping the various disciplines, 
which provides a more holistic overview of the various conditions at play when developing 
collaborative eHealth Business models. Likewise, it will be the starting point on mapping the 
complexity surrounding multi-actor collaborative business models and the various routes to 
achieve this outcome. With our participatory action research, we contribute to the call for 
defragmenting the literatures related to e-health implementation and a better understanding of 
factors and strategies influencing this (Ross et al., 2016, p. 2). Our research provides an exciting 
opportunity to advance our understanding of stakeholders’ active participation in collaborative 
value creation (Lumpkin & Bacq, 2019) and new organizational forms (Daskalaki et al., 2015). The 
scoping review provides an overview of the factors influencing the successful implementation of 
preventive e-health applications for local communities. With this first step, we map and integrate 
the essential conditions from the literatures on (e)Health innovations and business models, 
providing an overview that future research can use (Corley & Gioia, 2011; Whetten, 1989). This 
overview will help scholars and practitioners to focus on the relevant design issues in designing 
preventive e-health applications and organizational arrangements. The insights of the process 
towards collective action are highly relevant as the call for more bottom-up citizen initiatives and 
the transformation of the current (health) system increases. Research is increasingly called upon to 
find the connection with practice. This complex co-creation and adaptive process and the learning 
and reflection cycles are not unique to this case study. Hence our findings will inform theory and 
practice. 
The structure of this paper is as follows: we first describe the method to conduct our participatory 
action research and scoping review and display our preliminary findings. As we are still in the middle 
of analyzing the available data, it is premature to have a meaningful discussion or draw conclusions 
based on what we have so far. 
Method 
Context 
This research initiated from the question of mapping the development process of a community-
based, multi-actor business model focusing on positive health behavior and how eHealth can 
support this and started in September 2021. The process revolves around a citizen initiative that 
focuses on health, well-being, and (self) care at the neighborhood level and is part of a larger field 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
32 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
lab in the Netherlands. The citizen initiative strives to set people into motion (literally and 
figuratively). This citizen initiative developed various interventions and actions that contribute to 
health promotion. The activities focus on self-management, health, exercise, and mutual support, 
supported by an app (an eHealth tool). This tool is expected to improve community residents' self-
management, co-reliance, and participation. The participants can use the app to map their 
progress. Accordingly, this eHealth tool may also help to show the program’s effectiveness once 
coupled to the IFC indicators (World Health, 2001). However, it is challenging to develop tools that 
align with the capacities and possibilities of citizens with a low(er) socioeconomic status (SES) 
population (Flinterman et al., 2019). Another effect of this citizen initiative and the eHealth tool 
may be the shift in care tasks of (in)formal care providers. However, research needs to map how 
this affects the network and the value reciprocity between the actors.  The uncertainty caused by 
different scenarios and interactions makes it unclear how to establish long-term financial 
sustainability to realize the plurality of ambitions. These complex questions fit within a broader 
development that is apparent in health care (as well as the formalization of citizens' citizen 
initiatives in a broader sense). This process's objectives are to make the current interventions 
sustainable and sharable, the development of critical performance indicators in various areas, and 
share the accumulated knowledge and support and development of other neighborhoods and 
municipalities (scaling). Close collaboration with various partners and stakeholders helps to 
accomplish these objectives. 
Methodology 
We use a participatory action research (PAR) design. PAR is the systematic inquiry in close 
collaboration with those affected by the research problem to learn, take action, and transform to 
change the current situation (Bradbury, 2021; Cargo & Mercer, 2008, p. 327). This design enables 
participation and knowledge-co-creation and brings together action and reflection, theory and 
practice to achieve practical solutions to issues of pressing concern with people (emphasis added) 
(Bradbury, 2021, p. 185). PAR commits to democratic principles of justice and equality and refers 
to an epistemology that engages research design, methods, analyses, and products through a lens 
of democratic participation and collective action (Torre, 2014, p. 1323). Hence, PAR enables people 
to solve complex problems together in their (professional) lives. The research problem 
embeddedness into the larger system, the desired situation, and the opportunities for change and 
transformation are found by jointly examining the specific situation and the perspectives of various 
stakeholders (Eelderink, 2020). This research design guides learning and action and is common in 
health, community-based processes, and local social innovation (Aiken, 2017; Cargo & Mercer, 
2008; Sadabadi & Rahimi Rad, 2021). Owing to our research question, how to collaboratively set up 
the Participatory Action Research Design to accelerate the business model development process of 
a local citizen initiative by empirically validating the conditions that influence multi-actor, 
community-based business models focusing on eHealth, seems as the justified choice. Specifically, 
because an important aim of the research is to empower the citizen initiative-takers.   
An action research design has a more open, unpredictable, and flexible character. The research 
design of PAR is cyclical (consists of several 'rounds') and is flexible; it adapts to changes in practice. 
Although an exact research plan cannot be determined in advance, basic structures can be used 
(Wouters & Van Zaalen, 2012). PAR designs use various research methods, ranging from 
quantitative to qualitative and single-case designs to mixed-method designs (Cargo & Mercer, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
33 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2008). We use an explorative case study with a mixed-method approach (Creswell & Clark, 2007; 
Ivankova, 2017; Tashakkori & Teddlie, 1998). 
The activities employed in this stage are two-fold. We conduct a scoping review to familiarize 
ourselves with the relevant themes and possible courses of action. Munn et al. (2018, p. 2) define 
scoping reviews as a tool to determine the scope of a certain topic’s body of literature to identify 
and map the available evidence. The authors continue that this review type provides insight into 
the available evidence in a field, clarifies key concepts and definitions, examines how research is 
conducted, identifies the main characteristics or factors related to a concept, and might be a 
precursor for a systematic review. A scoping review seeks to “explore and define conceptual and 
logistic boundaries around a particular topic to inform a future predetermined systematic review 
or primary research” (Sutton et al., 2019, p. 211). Our review will provide an overview of the factors 
influencing the successful implementation of preventive eHealth applications within multi-actor 
collaborations in and for local communities.  In this preliminary stage, our scoping review focuses 
on clarifying key concepts and finding relationships between the bodies of literature. With this step, 
we map and integrate the essential conditions from the literatures on (e)Health innovations and 
multi-actor business models focusing on blended value in and with local communities, providing an 
overview that future research can use (Corley & Gioia, 2011; Whetten, 1989). This overview will 
help focus our action steps within the PAR design and contribute to the relevant design issues in 
designing preventive eHealth applications and organizational arrangements. Due to the duration 
and depth regularly employed in a scoping review, it is best to regard the current process and 
outcomes as a mapping review and (Munn et al., 2018; Sutton et al., 2019) to guide our search, we 
use the PRISMA-ScR guidelines (Tricco et al., 2018). 
Secondly, together with the members of the citizen inititiave acting as co-researchers, we create a 
shared understanding of the need for improvements (McTaggart, 1991). In doing so, researchers 
and co-researchers are collaboratively developing the scope and purpose of the research and, by 
doing so, working on establishing trust and mutual respect (Cargo & Mercer, 2008). Furthermore, 
establishing cycles of action and reflection (Ivankova, 2017; Ramos-Mejía et al., 2019) will focus on 
learning to act and acting in close collaboration with the people involved (Burnes, 2012; Burns et 
al., 2021; Lewin, 1942). Most of the sessions with the stakeholders are and will be recorded. When 
this is not possible, the researchers take field notes. PAR is known for its iterations, and we are in 
the middle of defining and specifying these loops. Please see the preliminary drafts of this process 
in Table 
TABLE 1 PROJECT PHASING 
Phase 
Time 
period 
Objectives 
(anticipated) 
Outcomes  
Data collection 
Pre-
orientation 
phase  
September 
2021- 
February 
2022 
Forming a public 
sphere for 
communicative 
action. Building 
trust, refining on 
the research 
question (Kemmis 
et al., 2014) 
- strategic actions 
- communicative 
actions 
Recorded stakeholder 
sessions (observation 
and interviews), 
fieldnotes and scoping 
review  
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
34 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Orientation  February 
2022-  
Establishing a 
shared language 
and identification 
of the themes. 
Establishing data-
collection and 
reflection 
 
Setting-up a 
structured PAR-
cycle for action 
and reflection, in 
order to learn to 
act and act to learn 
 
Weekly 
appointments are 
scheduled in which 
the participants will 
look at the current 
most important 
themes. 
Additionally, the 
researchers 
observe in the 
stakeholder 
meetings to 
understand the 
pressing issues. In 
these meetings the 
participants dream 
(set out their 
ambitions) and take 
actions (which 
serve as input for 
the reflection.  
 This will define the 
various needs and 
the actions. This is 
the input to 1) 
clarify the 
important themes 
and 2) reduce the 
complexity and 
multidimensionality 
so that concrete 
actions can be 
taken. 
Recorded stakeholder 
sessions (observation 
and interviews), field 
notes and scoping 
review.  
 
Additionally, we will 
interview all the 
stakeholders when 
there is enough trust. 
We use purposive 
sampling and a 
snowball technique 
(Gerring, 2007). 
Phase 2 
 
Enhance 
knowledge that 
contributes 
towards learning 
and taking action. 
The cycles of 
action and 
reflection aim 
towards this 
objective 
 
we will conduct group 
interviews with the 
various stakeholders 
to map the 
collaborative value 
creation potential 
method  group model 
building  (Scott, 2018). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
35 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Phase 3 
 
Generalize our 
findings 
The data from the 
stakeholder 
sessions, 
(group)interviews 
and survey form 
the input to 
conduct a FsQca 
analysis to shed 
light on the various 
combinations of 
conditions that 
may contribute to 
successfully 
implementing a 
viable and feasible 
multi-actor 
business model 
focusing on 
preventive eHealth 
solutions in local 
communities. 
 
 
Sample 
The sample differs based on the phase of the research project. In this initial phase, three?? 
participants are engaged. Our sample will consist of various stakeholders collaborating within this 
local community in later stages. The stakeholders are at least four SMEs, several formal and 
informal healthcare providers, potential end-users, and the city’s municipality. A joint task force of 
stakeholders oversees the project, where the first phase is the mapping of the users’ needs and the 
last phase is the implementation of the business model, which is developed based on the distilled 
conditions.  
The empirical data collection will occur between December 2021 and January 2023, as we intend 
to monitor these conditions over time. We aim to send the survey to a larger sample of relevant 
stakeholders with the same characteristics at the end of this project. 
Preliminary results 
This section reports our preliminary results on setting up the PAR-design with this community and 
our scoping review.  
Preliminary reflection on learning to act and act to learn 
When we started this project at the end of September 2021, the objectives for this research project 
were thought to be clear. The researchers and the focal participants had several meetings to get to 
know each other, the citizen initiative, interventions, and organizational structure. Additionally, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
36 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
these meetings were held to understand better the stakeholders involved, how far the citizen 
initiative was regarding their value proposition, and to learn whom they have spoken to regarding 
this and whom they were planning to speak to. Most of these meetings were online due to the 
lockdowns caused by the COVID pandemic. In these meetings, the participants expressed a lack of 
trust in researchers in general and that their previous experiences with research were not 
favorable. 
Nonetheless, the researchers were encouraged to write down what they intended to do and align 
their actions. The citizen-citizen initiative felt this document confirmed the lack of participation or 
co-creation they experienced before because the researchers were distanced from the citizen 
initiative. When the researchers asked to interview the most essential stakeholders individually to 
determine the baseline for comparison to the joint stakeholder meetings, the citizen initiative taker 
would not allow this. It took several weeks before it became clear to the researchers that they did 
not want the researcher to conduct these interviews as they feared that it would hinder and disturb 
the fragile process and possibly even hurt this. A possible explanation may be that a shared 
understanding was lacking due to the pivot in research design and the citizen-citizen initiative's 
protective attitude towards their process. The researchers were not invited to meetings, and 
information that may have been important for understanding the citizen initiative was not shared. 
This realization led to changing the course of action and taking a few steps in the orientation phase 
again. The new objective was to build a sense of shared knowledge and understanding and work 
towards the objectives. We now have had several creative sessions where all the participants got 
to know each other and learned to trust each other. This was essential to move forward. What also 
helped the researchers become more visible and spend a day onsite every week. 
Preliminary findings scoping review  
Our early-staged findings are structured around a few key themes that need to be further 
synthesized and structured based on the grounded theory method for literature reviews 
(Wolfswinkel et al., 2013). We started with a narrative review to get an idea of the various fields 
(Popay et al., 2006), where we used several articles as a starting point to determine the keywords. 
These keywords (see table 2 in the appendix) have led to the current article base. These hits, 
containing the author information, title, database, and abstracts, were incorporated into Eppi-
Reviewer. This software assists in literature reviews (Thomas et al., 2020). After reading the titles 
and abstracts, we added several keywords and conducted an additional search. The first step is to 
search for duplicates automatically, which led to the exclusion of 2175 articles. The remaining 
articles are scanned on their titles and abstracts and fit with this research project. The decision for 
inclusion or exclusion based on the full article follows. For an overview of the search process, we 
followed the guidelines of Page et al. (2021); please see below. Please see our current findings so 
far in Table 2.  
What we found in the literature 
The literature on eHealth is fragmented (Ross et al., 2016). It touches upon related fields such as 
hybrid entrepreneurship (Shepherd et al., 2019), social innovation (Phillips et al., 2015), social 
entrepreneurship (Saebi et al., 2019), end-user innovation (Oliveira et al., 2015), and civic wealth 
creation (Lumpkin & Bacq, 2019), digitalization and medicine (Oh et al., 2005) and business models 
(Menko et al., 2013; van Limburg et al., 2011). eHealth solutions are often diffused or 
commercialized in the social domain. The social domain comprises market citizen initiatives 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
37 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
contributing to a societal cause (Volkmann et al., 2012) and civic wealth, including health, 
happiness, and social justice (Lumpkin & Bacq, 2019).  
We find that many domains address collaborative business models  (de Man & Luvison, 2019), such 
as renewable energy (Camarinha-Matos, 2016; Delnooz & Six, 2013), the social domain (Haugh, 
2007), technology developing countries, and bottom of the pyramid settings (Oukes et al., 2021). 
Several authors have researched context-specific health care business models with differing foci, 
such as the collaborative nature, including the ecosystem, network, and stakeholders and, or focus 
on the technology(Andriole, 2006; Armstrong et al., 2021). Underneath these descriptions of these 
business models lie a variety of trends and developments, research methods, and methodologies. 
Several authors describe the current trends and developments that result in changing foci on health 
care and social value creation, in which the Covid-19 pandemic is seen as an essential accelerator 
(Bacq & Lumpkin, 2020; Khandelwal et al., 2021). Furthermore, collaboration is also seen as a tool 
in health care also received attention (Armstrong et al., 2021; Hoffmann et al., 2004; Rosa et al., 
2019). 
TABLE 2 PRELIMINARY OVERVIEW RESEARCH FINDINGS 
Collaborative Business Models 
Definitions 
The collaboration includes “supply chain management, personalization, 
customization, optimization, automation, and transaction trust.”(Andriole, 
2006) 
Collaborative Networks (CNs): “constituted by a variety of entities (e.g., 
organizations, people or machines) that are largely autonomous, 
geographically distributed, and heterogeneous in terms of their operating 
environment, culture, social capital, and goals, but that collaborate to 
achieve common or compatible goals better, and whose interactions are 
enabled by computer networks”(Camarinha-Matos, 2016) 
“a activity where multiple organizations that might differ in type (industry, 
public research and nonprofit), their position in the value chain 
(manufacturing, service, etc.) and industry (energy, ICT, etc.) work together 
to create a value creation system. In some cases, they will also attempt 
jointly to create the value capture system.”(Rohrbeck et al., 2013, p. 8) 
Business model 
archetypes  
Forms “collaborative business models: sharing, specialization, and allocation 
These models all have their characteristics for value creation, capture, and 
delivery.” (de Man & Luvison, 2019) 
Research 
opportunities 
Operationalization of collaborative business models (de Man & Luvison, 
2019) 
Lack of knowledge on how multidirectional value flows between a business 
and its stakeholders and how this could be systematically analyzed in 
business model theory and practice(Freudenreich et al., 2020, p. 2). 
Domains 
Sustainability 
Electric vehicles (Delnooz & Six, 2013) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
38 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Smart grids (Camarinha-Matos, 2016), renewable energy 
(Yildiz et al., 2015), sustainability innovations(Rohrbeck et 
al., 2013), multiple stakeholders and sustainability 
(Freudenreich et al., 2020; Tapaninaho & Kujala, 2019) 
Social 
 
Civic wealth creation (Lumpkin & Bacq, 2019) 
Community-led ventures (Haugh, 2007) 
Collaborative value creation (James E. Austin & Maria May 
Seitanidi, 2012; James E. Austin & M. May Seitanidi, 2012) 
Technology  
 
Mobile apps (Armstrong et al., 2021) 
E-commerce (related to health)  
Information technology (Andriole, 2006) 
Digital innovation (Senyo et al., 2019) 
Health 
 
Care cooperatives by citizens in local communities 
(Boumans et al., 2015) 
 
Approaches  
Multi-actor business model design by using the e3-value methodology, 
which focuses on the exchange of all economic value, including actors, 
market segments, value objects, and value exchanges) and standard 
modeling concepts for describing which stakeholders exchange objects of 
economic value with whom  (Delnooz & Six, 2013, pp. 2-3) 
Related topics 
 
Networks, social capital, alliances (de Man & Luvison, 2019) 
Platform-centric ecosystems (Mukhopadhyay & Bouwman, 2018) 
Collaborative innovation networks (IT focus): social product development 
(Abhari et al., 2016) related terms “democratizing innovation” (von Hippel, 
2005). See Abhari et al. (2016) for success factors for social product 
development.  
Open innovation and service innovation (Rajala et al., 2016) 
Cooperatives, co-ops.  
Stakeholders 
Customers, network actors, society, environment, 
customers,/users/consumers, suppliers, regulators (policymakers), 
competitors, business model actors, NGO’s, specific segments, employees, 
local communities, board and managers, shareholders, CEOs, actors 
affected and involved, which the authors summarized into societal 
stakeholders, financial stakeholders, customers, business partners and 
employees (Freudenreich et al., 2020) 
Business models in Health Care 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
39 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Approaches  
 
Brilliant business models in health care (Kemperman et al., 2016) 
 
Health care disruptive business models focusing on value creation  and 
strategic choices related to future markets, internal and external 
capabilities, performance anatomy(Elton & O'Riordan, 2016) 
 
The STOF business model framework. This is a combination of eHix and the 
STOF framework. STOF stands for the service domain, technology domain, 
organization domain, and finance domain. This is combined with the 
innovation phases of Cooper, which are the inventory phase, design & 
development phase, experimental phase, pilot phase, and implementation 
phase. This results in a matrix also called the Matrix Model  (Menko et al., 
2013) 
Business model 
archetypes  
Lean-innovators, Around-the-Patient Innovators, Value Innovators, New 
Health Digitals and Hybrids and other novel solutions (Elton & O'Riordan, 
2016) 
 
Success factors 
and 
characteristics 
 
Success factors are “profitable, loyal customers, satisfied employees, 
contribute to society [..] the value creation had to be measurable and 
demonstrable and for all parties concerned” and this is “achieved by being 
vision-driven, business model perseverance and being pioneers for and by 
stakeholders.” (Kemperman et al., 2016, pp. xiii- xiv). The authors 
developed a framework that can be applied to achieve this.  
 
Barriers 
Usability: Technologies are not developed for a specific target group 
(Armstrong et al., 2021) 
 
“Obstacles in the path of health e-commerce are numerous and include 
future data standardization, privacy regulations, and health insurance 
underwriting laws, as well as the fact that a further market downturn may 
choke development resources.”(Parente, 2000, p. 89), 
 
 
Diffusion and adoptions of eHealth solutions are slow(Menko et al., 2013) 
 
Collaboration in (e)Health 
Community 
engagement 
models 
Social-Ecological model, the Active Community Engagement Continuum, 
Diffusion of Innovations, and community-based participatory research 
(CBPR) to achieve positive health outcomes and reduce inequalities  (Cyril et 
al., 2015, pp. 1-2) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
40 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Collaboration 
forms  
Care coordination programs focused on dementia describing costs and 
stakeholders (Rosa et al., 2019) 
 
 
Person-centered care Coordination, where collaboration is achieved by 
using the Continuity of Care model of Wagner and  
the INtegrated CAre (INCA) health issue spiderweb (Hofdijk & Cillessen, 
2021) 
 
Collaborations as a tool Achieving cost reduction in programs for psychiatric 
patients (Hoffmann et al., 2004) 
 
Community 
Characteristics 
Disadvantaged groups 
experience health inequalities and bear a disproportionate burden of 
disease due to structural, social, and cultural barriers. They face challenges 
by geographic access to health care, culturally inappropriate services, 
financial barriers, poor health literacy, and language barriers that impede 
their effective utilization of health services. Additionally, they often have 
higher risk factors for diseases, lack of awareness of the existing health 
resources, and poor eligibility for health insurance, further limiting their 
access to health care.”(Cyril et al., 2015, p. 2) 
 
Trends and developments in (e)Health  
 
Demographic 
changes 
Increasing costs and changing needs (Boumans et al., 2015) 
 
Demographic changes lead to different foci, such as output-focused instead 
of treatment or intervention-focused, from reactive to preventive  (Elton & 
O'Riordan, 2016).  
Changes lead to new ways to think about health care, cost-efficiency, and 
more holistic views (Johansen & van den Bosch, 2017) 
COVID-19 
Digital health technologies have as promising tools to respond to the global 
outbreak of COVID-19 (Khandelwal et al., 2021) related to the accessibility 
of health  
Role of 
technology 
Mobile apps for youth with mental illness(Armstrong et al., 2021) related to 
the accessibility of health 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
41 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
eHealth 
Definitions 
The term eHealth encompasses a set of disparate concepts, including 
health, technology, and commerce, where the technology expands, assists, 
or enhances human activities, but not substituting this (Oh et al., 2005, p. 9)  
Domains 
Technology 
Telemedicine and e-consultation (Almathami et al., 2020) 
 
Service 
 eHealth innovation are seen as a service innovation rather 
than technological development(Menko et al., 2013) 
 
Success 
factor:  
Requirements approach focusing on the end-user/ 
stakeholders and their specific context developed by a 
multidisciplinary team (Van Velsen et al., 2013) 
 
Discussion and Conclusion 
Our research provides an exciting opportunity to advance our understanding of stakeholders’ active 
participation in collaborative value creation and new organizational forms / business moodles. This 
paper describes the preliminary findings and reflections of our participatory action research 
project’s first phase to distill enabling factors and impediments in the process of establishing a 
multi-actor, community-based business model focusing on positive health promotion by using 
eHealth. With this first phase, our objective is to establish a shared view on the participatory action 
research’s design and denote the emerging themes to take collaborative action on. Moreover, by 
using a scoping review, we aim to defragment the literatures from various domains relating to 
multi-actor, community-based business models and the formalization of citizen citizen initiatives 
and synthesize these findings. 
Developing shared objectives and mutual trust-building takes more time than anticipated, which 
has led to changes in the design, the research objectives, and the research question. This 
continuous adapting and learning from the process has yet to shape out. The lack of a shared 
understanding of the research objectives and role-fulfillment has been a significant obstacle. 
Currently, we are in the phase where this is being discussed with the citizen citizen initiative. We 
aim to reflect on this process using the PAR-research and anticipate that we can share these findings 
at the conference.  
Regarding our scoping review, as our preliminary results indicate, the field of collaborative business 
models focusing on eHealth prevention is multifaceted, with many sub-dimensions and overlaps 
with related domains – and we have only just begun to map this. Our findings so far demonstrate 
the need to synthesize the research findings and contribute to a shared understanding of the 
relevant conditions that influence this emerging phenomenon. This exercise will help to provide the 
theoretical consensus and help to move forward.  
Research into collaborative business models addresses sustainability (Rohrbeck et al., 2013) and 
social issues (James E. Austin & Maria May Seitanidi, 2012; James E. Austin & M. May Seitanidi, 
2012). An emerging body of literature addresses citizen-citizen initiatives, addressing market and 
governmental failures. However, it remains unclear how such citizen initiatives formalize and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
42 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
perpetuate in the context of health and how the interplay its context and the dominant systemic 
logic changes such citizen initiatives. 
We trust that our empirical findings and experiences will enhance the available knowledge on the 
entrepreneurial learning process to accelerate business model development (Fischer & Julsing, 
2019). In this instance, a citizen citizen initiative will be helpful for all similar processes aimed at 
empowering local actors and producing bottom-up change. These insights will help scale up social 
transformation to benefit society.  
 
Limitations 
As mentioned, we are finalizing the first phase of our PAR project and we intend to reflect on our 
preliminary findings to understand better the process that has unfolded by using the PAR-design as 
well as literature from among, but not limited to, business modeling, (social) entrepreneurship, 
community entrepreneurship, and grassroot and frugal innovations. Structuring and synthesizing 
our data will be the next step. Therefore, our preliminary findings are not yet conclusive but support 
establishing our research objectives.  In addition, the presented PAR process has been written down 
from the researchers’ perspective. Although there is no reason to assume that this is not a shared 
narrative of these events, their perspectives are not discussed fully and have not yet been enriched 
by other participants yet. A further understanding of the complexity of developing a citizen citizen 
initiative's business model requires reflections and critical dialogue from and between all parties 
involved. 
Acknowledgment  
This research is co-financed by Regieorgaan SIA, part of the Netherlands Organization for Scientific 
Research (NWO)” and with a PPP allowance made available by Health-Holland, Top Sector Life 
Sciences & Health, to encourage public-private partnerships. 
References   
Aarikka-Stenroos, L., Sandberg, B., & Lehtimäki, T. (2014, 2014/04/01/). Networks for the commercialization 
of innovations: A review of how divergent network actors contribute. Industrial Marketing 
Management, 43(3), 365-381. https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2013.12.005  
Abhari, K., Davidson, E., & Xiao, B. S. (2016). Taking open innovation to the next level: a conceptual model of 
social product development (SPD).  
Aiken, G. T. (2017). Social Innovation and Participatory Action Research: A way to research community? 
European Public & Social Innovation Review, 2(1), 17-33.  
Almathami, H. K. Y., Win, K. T., & Vlahu-Gjorgievska, E. (2020). Barriers and Facilitators That Influence 
Telemedicine-Based, Real-Time, Online Consultation at Patients' Homes: Systematic Literature 
Review. Journal of medical Internet research, 22(2), e16407-e16407. https://doi.org/10.2196/16407  
Andriole, S. J. (2006). The collaborate/integrate business technology strategy. Communications of the ACM, 
49(5), 85-90.  
Armstrong, C. C., Odukoya, E. J., Sundaramurthy, K., & Darrow, S. M. (2021). Youth and Provider Perspectives 
on Behavior-Tracking Mobile Apps: Qualitative Analysis. JMIR Mental Health, 8(4), e24482.  
Austin, J. E., & Seitanidi, M. M. (2012). Collaborative Value Creation:A Review of Partnering Between 
Nonprofits and Businesses. Part 2: Partnership Processes and Outcomes. Nonprofit and Voluntary 
Sector Quarterly, 41(6), 929-968. https://doi.org/10.1177/0899764012454685  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
43 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Austin, J. E., & Seitanidi, M. M. (2012). Collaborative Value Creation:A Review of Partnering Between 
Nonprofits and Businesses: Part I. Value Creation Spectrum and Collaboration Stages. Nonprofit and 
Voluntary Sector Quarterly, 41(5), 726-758. https://doi.org/10.1177/0899764012450777  
Bacq, S., & Lumpkin, G. (2020). Social entrepreneurship and COVID‐19. Journal of Management Studies.  
Boumans, J., Swinkels, W., van de Goor, I., & Luijkx, K. (2015). Zorgcoöperaties: een wetenschappelijke 
verkenning vanuit drie perspectieven. Journal of Social Intervention: Theory and Practice, 24(4).  
Bradbury, H. (2021). 14 ACTION RESEARCH–PARTICIPATIVE SELF IN TRANSFORMATIVE ACTION. The SAGE 
Handbook of Participatory Research and Inquiry.  
Broerse, J. E., & Bunders-Aelen, J. (2010). Transitions in health systems: dealing with persistent problems.  
Burnes, B. (2012). Field Theory of Learning. In N. M. Seel (Ed.), Encyclopedia of the Sciences of Learning (pp. 
1299-1301). Springer US. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4419-1428-6_617  
Burns, D., Howard, J., & Ospina, S. M. (2021). The SAGE handbook of participatory research and inquiry. SAGE.  
Camarinha-Matos, L. M. (2016). Collaborative smart grids–a survey on trends. Renewable and Sustainable 
Energy Reviews, 65, 283-294.  
Cargo, M., & Mercer, S. L. (2008). The value and challenges of participatory research: strengthening its 
practice. Annu. Rev. Public Health, 29, 325-350.  
Corley, K. G., & Gioia, D. A. (2011). Building theory about theory building: what constitutes a theoretical 
contribution? Academy of Management Review, 36(1), 12-32.  
Creswell, J. W., & Clark, V. L. P. (2007). Designing and conducting mixed methods research.  
Cyril, S., Smith, B. J., Possamai-Inesedy, A., & Renzaho, A. M. (2015). Exploring the role of community 
engagement in improving the health of disadvantaged populations: a systematic review. Global 
health action, 8(1), 29842.  
Daskalaki, M., Hjorth, D., & Mair, J. (2015). Are entrepreneurship, communities, and social transformation 
related? Journal of Management Inquiry, 24(4), 419-423.  
de Man, A.-P., & Luvison, D. (2019). Collaborative business models: Aligning and operationalizing alliances. 
Business Horizons, 62(4), 473-482.  
Delnooz, A., & Six, D. (2013). Multi-actor business model analysis of uncoordinated electric vehicle charging 
compared to local load management. 2013 World Electric Vehicle Symposium and Exhibition 
(EVS27),  
Eelderink, M. (2020). Handboek Participatief Actieonderzoek: Samen bouwen aan een betere wereld.  
Elton, J., & O'Riordan, A. (2016). Healthcare disrupted: Next generation business models and strategies. John 
Wiley & Sons.  
Fischer, T., & Julsing, M. (2019). Onderzoek doen! : kwantitatief en kwalitatief onderzoek (Vol. Derde druk) 
[Book]. 
Noordhoff 
Uitgevers 
BV. 
https://saxion.idm.oclc.org/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=nle
bk&AN=2205616&site=eds-live&scope=site  
Flinterman, F., Bisscheroux, P., Dijkema, P., den Hertog, F., de Jong, M., Vermeer, A., & Vosjan, M. (2019). 
Positieve Gezondheid en gezondheidspercepties van mensen met een lage SES. Tijdschrift voor 
gezondheidswetenschappen, 97(3), 96-105.  
Freudenreich, B., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Schaltegger, S. (2020). A stakeholder theory perspective on business 
models: Value creation for sustainability. Journal of Business Ethics, 166(1), 3-18.  
Groen, A. J. (2005). KNOWLEDGE INTENSIVE ENTREPRENEURSHIP IN NETWORKS: TOWARDS A MULTI-
LEVEL/MULTI DIMENSIONAL APPROACH [Article]. Journal of Enterprising Culture, 13(1), 69-88. 
https://doi.org/10.1142/S0218495805000069  
Haugh, H. (2007). Community-led social venture creation [Article]. Entrepreneurship: Theory and Practice, 
31(2), 161-182. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-6520.2007.00168.x  
Hofdijk, J., & Cillessen, F. (2021). Person-Centered Care Coordination Next Steps in a Long Journey. Studies in 
Health Technology and Informatics, 281, 751-752.  
Hoffmann, D. A., Young, D., Manges, L. C., Chambers, W., & Miller, M. (2004). A collaborative approach to the 
development of psychiatric rehabilitation services in a public behavioral health managed care 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
44 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
environment 
[Review]. 
Psychiatric 
Rehabilitation 
Journal, 
28(2), 
109-112. 
https://doi.org/10.2975/28.2004.109.112  
Ivankova, N. V. (2017). Applying mixed methods in community-based participatory action research: a 
framework for engaging stakeholders with research as a means for promoting patient-centredness. 
Journal of Research in Nursing, 22(4), 282-294.  
Johansen, F., & van den Bosch, S. (2017). The scaling-up of Neighbourhood Care: From experiment towards a 
transformative movement in healthcare. Futures, 89, 60-73.  
[Record #864 is using a reference type undefined in this output style.] 
Kemperman, J., Geelhoed, J., & op‘t Hoog, J. (2016). Brilliant business models in healthcare. Springer.  
Khandelwal, R., Kolte, A., & Rossi, M. (2021). A study on entrepreneurial opportunities in digital health-care 
post-Covid-19 from the perspective of developing countries. foresight.  
Lewin, K. (1942). Field theory and learning.  
Lumpkin, G. T., & Bacq, S. (2019). Civic Wealth Creation: A New View of Stakeholder Engagement and Societal 
Impact 
[Article]. 
Academy 
of 
Management 
Perspectives, 
33(4), 
383-404. 
https://doi.org/10.5465/amp.2017.0060  
McTaggart, R. (1991). Principles for participatory action research. Adult education quarterly, 41(3), 168-187.  
Menko, R., Visser, S., Janssen, R., Hettinga, M., & Haaker, T. (2013). Applying the STOF business model 
framework in eHealth innovations. Proc. eTELEMED, 108-113.  
Mukhopadhyay, S., & Bouwman, H. (2018). Multi-actor collaboration in platform-based ecosystem: 
opportunities and challenges. Journal of Information Technology Case and Application Research, 
20(2), 47-54.  
Munn, Z., Peters, M. D., Stern, C., Tufanaru, C., McArthur, A., & Aromataris, E. (2018). Systematic review or 
scoping review? Guidance for authors when choosing between a systematic or scoping review 
approach. BMC medical research methodology, 18(1), 1-7.  
Oh, H., Rizo, C., Enkin, M., & Jadad, A. (2005, 2005/2/24). What Is eHealth (3): A Systematic Review of 
Published Definitions. J Med Internet Res, 7(1), e1. https://doi.org/10.2196/jmir.7.1.e1  
Oliveira, P., Zejnilovic, L., Canhão, H., & von Hippel, E. (2015). Innovation by patients with rare diseases and 
chronic needs. Orphanet journal of rare diseases, 10(1), 41.  
Oukes, T., Langley, D., Nijhof, A., Berkers, F., & von Raesfeld Meijer. (2021). Collaborative Business Modeling 
in a Base-of-the-Pyramid Context: A Systematic Literature Review and Research Agenda. In Press, 1-
57.  
Page, M. J., McKenzie, J. E., Bossuyt, P. M., Boutron, I., Hoffmann, T. C., Mulrow, C. D., Shamseer, L., Tetzlaff, 
J. M., Akl, E. A., & Brennan, S. E. (2021). The PRISMA 2020 statement: an updated guideline for 
reporting systematic reviews. Bmj, 372.  
Parente, S. T. (2000). Beyond The Hype: A Taxonomy Of E-Health Business Models: How to build a health data 
infrastructure that can deliver both a public and a private good. Health Affairs, 19(6), 89-102.  
Phillips, W., Lee, H., Ghobadian, A., O’Regan, N., & James, P. (2015). Social innovation and social 
entrepreneurship: A systematic review. Group & Organization Management, 40(3), 428-461.  
Popay, J., Roberts, H., Sowden, A., Petticrew, M., Arai, L., Rodgers, M., Britten, N., Roen, K., & Duffy, S. (2006). 
Guidance on the conduct of narrative synthesis in systematic reviews. A product from the ESRC 
methods programme Version, 1, b92.  
[Record #757 is using a reference type undefined in this output style.] 
Ramos-Mejía, M., Jauregui-Becker, J. M., Koers-Stuiver, M., & Franco-Garcia, M.-L. (2019). Cycles of action 
and reflection as the basis of transformative innovation. Management research review.  
Rohrbeck, R., Konnertz, L., & Knab, S. (2013). Collaborative business modelling for systemic and sustainability 
innovations. International Journal of Technology Management 22, 63(1-2), 4-23.  
Rosa, T. D., Possin, K. L., Bernstein, A., Merrilees, J., Dulaney, S., Matuoka, J., Lee, K. P., Chiong, W., Bonasera, 
S. J., Harrison, K. L., & Kahn, J. G. (2019). Variations in Costs of a Collaborative Care Model for 
Dementia 
[Article]. 
Journal of 
the 
American 
Geriatrics 
Society, 
67(12), 
2628-2633. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/jgs.16076  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
45 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Ross, J., Stevenson, F., Lau, R., & Murray, E. (2016). Factors that influence the implementation of e-health: a 
systematic review of systematic reviews (an update). Implementation science, 11(1), 1-12.  
Sadabadi, A. A., & Rahimi Rad, Z. (2021). Social innovation participatory action research for empowerment of 
marginalized people. Asian Social Work and Policy Review, 15(2), 160-172.  
Saebi, T., Foss, N. J., & Linder, S. (2019). Social entrepreneurship research: Past achievements and future 
promises. Journal of management, 45(1), 70-95.  
Senyo, P. K., Liu, K., & Effah, J. (2019, 2019/08/01/). Digital business ecosystem: Literature review and a 
framework for future research. International Journal of Information Management, 47, 52-64. 
https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.01.002  
Shepherd, D. A., Williams, T. A., & Zhao, E. Y. (2019). A framework for exploring the degree of hybridity in 
entrepreneurship. Academy of Management Perspectives, 33(4), 491-512.  
Sutton, A., Clowes, M., Preston, L., & Booth, A. (2019). Meeting the review family: exploring review types and 
associated information retrieval requirements. Health Information & Libraries Journal, 36(3), 202-
222.  
Tapaninaho, R., & Kujala, J. (2019). Reviewing the stakeholder value creation literature: Towards a 
sustainability approach. In Social responsibility and sustainability (pp. 3-36). Springer.  
Tashakkori, A., & Teddlie, C. (1998). Mixed methodology: Combining qualitative and quantitative approaches 
(Vol. 46). Sage.  
Thomas, J., Graziosi, S., Brunton, J., Ghouze, Z., O’Driscoll, P., & Bond, M. (2020). EPPI-Reviewer: advanced 
software for systematic reviews, maps and evidence synthesis. EPPI-Centre Software. London: UCL 
Social Research Institute.  
Torre, M. E. (2014). Participatory Action Research. In T. Teo (Ed.), Encyclopedia of Critical Psychology (pp. 
1323-1327). Springer New York. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4614-5583-7_211  
Tricco, A. C., Lillie, E., Zarin, W., O'Brien, K. K., Colquhoun, H., Levac, D., Moher, D., Peters, M. D., Horsley, T., 
& Weeks, L. (2018). PRISMA extension for scoping reviews (PRISMA-ScR): checklist and explanation. 
Annals of internal medicine, 169(7), 467-473.  
van Limburg, M., van Gemert-Pijnen, J. E., Nijland, N., Ossebaard, H. C., Hendrix, R. M., & Seydel, E. R. (2011). 
Why business modeling is crucial in the development of eHealth technologies. Journal of medical 
Internet research, 13(4), e124.  
Van Velsen, L., Wentzel, J., & Van Gemert-Pijnen, J. E. (2013). Designing eHealth that Matters via a 
Multidisciplinary Requirements Development Approach. JMIR research protocols, 2(1), e21-e21. 
https://doi.org/10.2196/resprot.2547  
Volkmann, C. K., Tokarski, K. O., & Ernst, K. (2012). Background, characteristics and context of social 
entrepreneurship. In Social entrepreneurship and social business (pp. 3-30). Springer.  
Von Hippel, E. (2005). Democratizing Innovation. The MIT Press.  
Whetten, D. A. (1989). What constitutes a theoretical contribution? Academy of Management Review, 14(4), 
490-495.  
Wolfswinkel, J. F., Furtmueller, E., & Wilderom, C. P. (2013). Using grounded theory as a method for rigorously 
reviewing literature. European Journal of Information Systems, 22(1), 45-55.  
[Record #854 is using a reference type undefined in this output style.] 
Wouters, E. J. M., & Van Zaalen, Y. (2012). Praktijkgericht onderzoek in de paramedische zorg.  
Yildiz, Ö., Rommel, J., Debor, S., Holstenkamp, L., Mey, F., Müller, J. R., Radtke, J., & Rognli, J. (2015). 
Renewable energy cooperatives as gatekeepers or facilitators? Recent developments in Germany 
and a multidisciplinary research agenda. Energy Research & Social Science, 6, 59-73.  
 
Appendix  
For Pubmed: only books and documents, reviews and systematic reviews.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
46 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
24-12 did the pubmed search again without the medical and trail information – too much noise 
in the dataset due to this.  
Duplicates – marked automatically >.9 
Searching strategy per database 
Period 1 sep 21 – 1 oct 21 
Scopus 
PUBMED 
Web of Science 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "preventive" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( 
"health" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "business model*" ) ) 
52 
23 
24 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "multi actor" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-
KEY ( "business model*" ) )  
27 
0 
28 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "cooperative" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-
KEY ( "business model*" ) )  
637 
20 
684 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "ehealth" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-
KEY ( "business model*" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-
KEY ( "cooperative" ) )  
2 
1 
2 
cooperative business model health 
55 
14 
46 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "multi actor" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( 
"business model*" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "health" ) ) 
2 
0 
0 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "success factor" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( 
"business model*" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "health" ) ) 
34 
7 
2 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "collaborative" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( 
"start-up*" ) ) 
388 
47 
 
Added network 
134 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "collaborative" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( 
"start-up*" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "health" ) ) 
45 
25 
299 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "collaborative" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( 
"start-up*" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "ehealth" ) ) 
1 
0 
1 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "multi-actor" )  AND  TITLE-ABS-KEY ( 
"start-up*" ) ) 
3 
0 
1 
TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "network business models" ) 
66 
205 
13 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "network business models" )  AND  
TITLE-ABS-KEY ( health ) ) 
3 
138 
1 
("network business model") AND ("ehealth") 
0 
7 
0 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "network business model*" )  AND  T-
ITLE-ABS-KEY ( "success*" ) ) 
5 
43 
0 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "community entrepreneur*" )  AND  
TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "health*” ) ) 
7 
49 
3 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
47 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
( TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "collective entrepreneur*" )  AND  
TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "health" ) ) 
5 
4 
4 
TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "healthcare entrepreneur*" ) 
21 
0 
8 
“healthcare” AND “entrepreneur*” 
1962 
59 
 
TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "collab** business model*" )   
114 
189 
36 
TITLE-ABS-KEY ( "collabor* value creat*" )   
58 
20 
99 
“multi-actor business model* technique*” 
0 
0 
Without m 
4 
“business model* technique*” 
39 
4 
4 
Formi* citizen initi* 
2 
0 
 
Citizen initia* and business mod 
 
 
 
Community business model 
 
 
5 
Communit entrepre* 
 
 
 
Citizen entre* 
 
 
 
Value mapping communit* 
 
 
 
Value exchange ‘’’communit 
 
 
 
 
Additional keywords  
critical infrastructure systems 
capability-based business model transformation 
value co-creation  
multistakeholder 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
48 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Business Model Innovation and 
Digital Technologies in SMEs: the 
Role of External Actors 
 
Sabatini A.1,*, Cucculelli M. 2, Gregori G.L. 1,  
1Dipartimento di Management, Università Politecnica delle Marche; 
2Dipartimento di Scienze Economiche e Sociali, Università Politecnica 
delle Marche 
*a.sabatini@staff.univpm.it 
Abstract 
Business model innovation has been extensively studied in startups and large corporations. 
However, extant literature lacks studies on business model innovation in SMEs. The study’s 
objective is to shed light on SMEs business model innovation processes when adopting digital 
technologies. The manuscript focuses on the role of external actors in supporting SMEs unfolding 
business model innovation processes. It develops a qualitative explorative study collecting data 
from six cases. The cases are mainly Italian SMEs located in Marche Region. Data are analysed 
according to an abductive approach. The paper unfolds new perspectives on SMEs business model 
innovation processes while these are adopting digital technologies by shedding light on the role of 
external partners throughout the process. It identifies the actors who participate in the SMEs 
innovation. Also, it develops preliminary theoretical and managerial implications related to the role 
of the actors identified in supporting business model innovation processes linked to digital 
technologies adoption. 
Keywords  
Business model, Business model innovation, digital technologies, SMEs, External Actors 
Introduction 
Business model innovation and digital technology adoption are paramount for firms to improve 
their business potential. Firms are increasingly eager to engage with external actors to seek support 
and guidance to stay on top of these complex and multifaceted processes. Even though prominent 
authors carried out plenty of studies on business model innovation, few focused on empirically 
exploring incumbent SMEs perspectives of external actors engagement when adopting digital 
technologies (Cfr. Habtay and Holmen, 2014; Chesbrough, 2007; 2010; Foss and Saebi, 2015; 
Chesbrough and Schwartz, 2007; Chesbrough and Bogers, 2014; Ojasalo and Kauppinen, 2016; 
Moeuf et al., 2018; Müller et al., 2018). Since SMEs are still crucial for most worldwide economies, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
49 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the study aims to shed light on how incumbent SMEs engage with external actors to support their 
business model innovation process when adopting new digital technologies.  
SMEs are since ever considered the driving force in most economies (Bowman et al., 2019); 
however, the analysis of how these unfold business model innovation processes through the 
adoption of digital technologies supported by external actors is still lacking. So far, SMEs are 
renowned for their lack of resources and strategic approach; thus, their challenge is even greater. 
In addition, looking at the crises that emerged since the early 2000s globally and the disruption 
brought by “internet technologies” first and digital technologies now, SMEs are now at a turning 
point in business model innovation issues (Cucculelli and Peruzzi, 2020). Thus, an explorative study 
on the phenomena is required.  
The study argues that SMEs might overcome their typical managerial shortcomings in digital 
technologies adoption and business model innovation deployment through the engagement of 
external actors. These actors support SMEs to enable their ability to manage business model 
innovation processes and digital technologies adoption. In addition, the need for understanding 
BMI and external partners links with the fact that extant studies mainly focus on startups and large 
corporations (Chesbrough and Bogers, 2014). 
The paper is organised as follows. The second section outlines the study’s literature background. 
The third section outline the methodology used to carry out the study. The fourth section outlines 
the findings gathered from the cases. The fifth section outline theoretical and managerial 
implications. The last section presents the study’s conclusions. 
Literature Background 
2.1 Business Model and Business model innovation: define the phenomena 
Business model (hereinafter BM) has been defined with several perspectives among researchers 
(Cfr. Bucherer et al., 2012; Teece, 2010; Chesbrough and Rosenbloom, 2002; Osterwalder et al., 
2005; Magretta, 2002; Zott and Amit, 2008; Amit and Zott, 2001). Although there is still no 
consensus on a shared conceptualisation of it, the study takes the Osterwalder et al. (2005, p. 17) 
as the most consistent with the research aim: 
“A business model is a conceptual tool that contains a set of elements and their relationships and 
allows expressing the business logic of a specific firm. It is a description of the value a company 
offers to one or several segments of customers and of the architecture of the firm and its network 
of partners for creating, marketing and delivering this value and relationship capital, to generate 
profitable and sustainable revenue streams”. 
Also, business model innovation (hereinafter BMI) is still a multifaceted and blurred field of 
research. In fact, among the several contributions about the concept of business model innovation 
(Cfr. Markides and Charitou, 2004; Bowman et al., 2018; Foss and Saebi, 2018; Frankemberger et 
al., 2013; Foss and Saebi, 2015; Bucherer et al., 2012; Khanaga et al., 2014; Liu and Bell, 2019) the 
study identified the most suitable by relating to the processual perspective of BMI. The study 
analyses the BMI process and the changes generated by the engagement of external actors. Thus, 
the study takes the BMI conceptualisation developed by Bucherer et al. (2012, p. 184): 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
50 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
“We define business model innovation as a process that deliberately changes the core elements of 
a firm and its business logic.” 
Nonetheless, BMI represents a disruptive innovation in SMEs (Habtay and Holmen, 2014). 
Moreover, while BMI is often seen as an opportunity recognised and exploited (Schneider, 2017), 
the study acquaintance also that the firm develops BMI with a precise strategy. Besides, creating a 
new BM can be done by integrating internal and external resources (Foss and Saebi, 2015). 
BMI process relates to the new product development and innovation process (Whiteralter et al., 
2017; Frankemberger et al., 2013; Bucherer et al., 2012). The analogy with NPD and innovation 
processes opens up several debates. Identifying the BMI as an innovation process allows to divide 
the process into different stages, gates, or phases (Cfr. Cooper 1998). Among the others, 
Frankemberger et al. (2013) has proposed four main phases of BMI’s process to describe its 
evolutionary nature until achieving the change of the business model. The phases are initiation, 
ideation, integration and implementation. 
Therefore, BMI processes interact with endogenous forces and elements, such as innovation 
trends, external partners, economic turmoil, industry transformation and changes in customers 
preference (Chesbrough and Schwarz, 2007). The present study will focus on the role of external 
actors. Acknowledging that nothing is created in isolation, also BMI foresees the interaction of 
different actors.  
According to extant theories on the BMI process (Frankemberger et al., 2013), the study develops 
the analysis according to three macro temporal frames as a processual reference. These are: before, 
during and after the BMI process. This temporal partition aims to support the study in 
understanding the flow of how external actors participate in BMI processes and where – within the 
process – they are eager to contribute most.  
2.2 Defining Digital Technologies 
Digital Technologies (from now onwards DT) are embedded within the firm under different forms; 
these can be products or services, tools, platforms, and infrastructures (Elia et al., 2020). DTs are 
related to the digitisation process, where DTs are changing the way of doing at the firm level (Vial 
et al., 2019). The study conceives digitisation as the process that underlies digital technologies 
adoption in organisational contexts (Legner et al., 2017). When DTs are incorporated as a vital 
component of the firm’s business model, these can enable the firm to seize new business 
opportunities (Elia et al., 2020; Ibarra et al., 2018).  
DT potentially can be embedded into customers interfaces side, thus as part of the end products or 
services; or can be deployed to improve and renovate firms’ internal processes and organisational 
management (Matt et al., 2015; Kiel et al., 2017). DTs are recognised in software and hardware 
components such as business software, social media, cybersecurity, big data, robot, IoT, sensors, 
cyber-physical systems, virtual reality, cloud technologies and artificial intelligence (Moeuf et al., 
2018). Because of their nature, DTs enables and supports collaboration and ease interactions 
among different actors (Elia et al., 2020) towards a unique innovation goal. 
However, DT calls incumbent firms for their integration into their BM (Berman, 2012). The 
integration of new technologies is crucial because DT themselves has no value; therefore, how firms 
improve their business potential by adopting those technologies should be considered the value of 
those technologies, especially in SMEs (Christensen et al., 2016). Nonetheless, the DT adoption is 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
51 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
ever more complex for SMEs, often recognised as lacking in managing the digitalisation process 
(Müller et al., 2018). 
2.3 Business Model Innovation, Digital Technologies and SMEs: the role of external actors 
The study posits that BMI is still a blurred phenomenon, enacted with DT, calls for a specific 
investigation and that SMEs still lack strategy and resources to manage both. From the theoretical 
and managerial studies yet developed, it is possible to argue that external actors are a central 
element to BMI (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010; Foss and Saebi, 2015). Thus, the article argues that 
the SMEs should recognise, as a viable way to enact BMI, the development of collaboration with 
external partners to exploit the potential of the DTs. Since Chesbrough (2010) concept of “open 
innovation”, several studies highlighted the role of external actors but still lack to shed light on BMI.  
Incumbent SMEs BMI process may face challenges related to the existence of a prior business model 
as well as to path dependency related to an existing dominant logic, assets and resources setting, 
the pressure on short-term results and the risk to undermine the existing business model (Ciulli and 
Kolk, 2019). Nonetheless, SMEs typically lack time and resources to experiment with new business 
models and strategies (Moeuf et al., 2019; Leithold et al., 2015; Bowman et al., 2018). Thus, SMEs 
calls to be supported by external actors in developing BMI processes and overcoming their typical 
barriers towards innovation.  
The role of external actors is identified in the whole BMI process. Moreover, most studies suggest 
an increasingly relevant role of the external actors’ ecosystem to support SMEs in their 
development. External actors allow SMEs to seize opportunities (Chesbrough, 2010). Through 
external actors, SMEs can respond to emerging stimuli and trends, moreover when these can refer 
to blurred areas such as digital technologies. External actors are of great support for SMEs in DTs 
exploitation because SMEs are typically suffering from a scarcity of resources and know-how to 
cope with innovation and technological adoption processes (Chesbrough, 2007). Partnership with 
external actors seems paramount to bridge technological and innovation gaps, as SMEs suffer from 
scarce ability to innovate their business although they may have already deployed new digital 
technologies (Chesbrough 2010). In addition, external actors are paramount to extend the 
capability to experiment, test and trial new technologies and new business models (Chesbrough, 
2007). Finally, external actors are critical for SMEs to address new challenges related to 
sustainability. 
Often these collaborations begin because of the resource scarcity of the SMEs, mainly in the areas 
of managerial and technological skills to support the BMI process (Chesbrough, 2010). However, 
one BMI major challenge to manage is the conflict between the new and old BM (Chesbrough, 
2010). Among the others, Ojasalo and Kauppinen (2016) suggested several challenges and benefits 
of developing external partnerships; however, the perspective on the adoption of DT is still missing 
from their findings (see Table 1, below). 
Benefits 
Challenges 
Identify changes and new opportunities 
Develop know-how and skills 
Establish a routine for sustainable innovation 
Economical, with lower costs and investments and 
potentially new revenues 
Change in attitudes and firms’ culture 
Find enough time to work on the process 
Be aware of the length of the process 
Adopt a systematic approach to collaboration 
Address the change resistance 
Address the resource scarcity 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
52 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 1 - Benefits and Challenges of external partnerships in BMI - Our elaboration based on Ojasalo 
and Kauppinen, 2016 
What is still missing is an explorative study that aims to uncover how SMEs face BMI processes with 
external actors’ support. Likewise, the study aims to depict the role of external actors supporting 
SMEs to change their business model. The study aims to shed light on the opportunities and 
challenges of external partnerships for SMEs deploying BMI while adopting DT. Moreover, 
according to the time frames discussed before, the study aims to depict the potential role of 
external actors in supporting the BMI process (See, Figure 1 below). As outlined in the figure below, 
since the study has a twofold purpose, the research questions explored are: 
RQ1: Which external actors play a role in SMEs BMI processes? 
RQ2: How the role of external actors unfolds in the BMI process?  
 
Figure 1 - Overview of the conceptual model of study 
 
 
Methodology 
The explorative study develops through six semi-structured interviews with SMEs. The study selects 
key informants through purposeful sampling (Eisenhardt and Graebner, 2007) to provide 
theoretical contributions and managerial suggestions. The research questions and the conceptual 
model of external actors’ involvement in BMI developed (see, Figure 1 above) provided the 
researchers with guidance and focus for collecting empirical data. In addition, empirical material 
and secondary data (e.g., formal reports, attended business meetings, website, formal plans, 
financial statements) have been added to ensure triangulation and validity of the study (Yin, 2014; 
Eisenhardt, 1989). Data gathered from key informants have also been integrated and triangulated 
with notes and other secondary data gathered on the web. The study outlines exploratory research 
based on qualitative empirical data collected from six key informants among leading personnel as 
SMEs’ entrepreneurs and managers. These firms have been selected from a sample of seventy SMEs 
enrolled in a university-industry collaboration program. The cases are identified through purposeful 
sampling and snowballing processes (Eisenhardt and Graebner, 2007). The case firms have been 
selected from researchers to engage with SMEs already involved in adopting digital technologies 
and business model innovation processes (see Table 2 below). All the key informants have been 
submitted the same interview protocol to ensure the study’s validity (Yin, 2014). 
N. 
Data 
Firm 
Actor 
Lenght 
Support 
1 
May 27, 2019 
Gamma 
R&D Director 
70 mins. 
Audio + Note 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
53 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2 
January 21, 2020 
Teta 
Marketing Director 
15 mins. 
Audio + Note 
3 
June 28, 2019 
Alfa 
Entrepreneur 
15 mins. 
Audio + Note 
4 
June 5, 2019 
Epsilon 
CFO 
60 mins. 
Note 
5 
October 8, 2019 
Eta 
Entrepreneur 
45 mins 
Note 
6 
October 21, 2019 
Delta 
Entrepreneur 
40 mins. 
Note 
Table 2 - Data collection overview 
According to the study’s exploratory nature, data have been analysed by adopting an abductive 
approach (Corbin and Strauss, 2015). The study results unfold from a constant and continuous 
comparison between the literature and the data gathered. The adoption of this approach allows 
the study to address the research questions and develop further theoretical and managerial 
implications to contribute to the extant literature stream. 
3.1 Cases description 
The study explored six cases gathered within Marche Region, Italy, characterised by a relevant 
number of SMEs. These small and medium-sized firms are heterogeneous; for example, operating 
in shoemaking, industrial constructions, production, and distribution of machinery. All the firms 
have been interviewed using the same research protocol. Then, all the firms interviewed were 
collected further data from secondary sources. Below, the cases are summarised (see Appendix A) 
in the following table, highlighting the different typologies of external actors involved (See Table 3). 
The cases identified the profile of the actors involved in the digital technologies’ adoption and 
business model innovation paths in SMEs: universities, hardware providers, software houses, 
marketing agencies, business consulting firms, and digital innovation ecosystems. The study 
provides evidence of their centrality for beginning, developing and realising BMI in SMEs. 
Case companies → 
ALFA 
GAMMA 
DELTA 
EPSILON 
ETA 
TETA 
External Actors ↓ 
University 
× 
× 
 
× 
 
 
Hardware Provider 
× 
× 
 
× 
 
 
Software House 
 
× 
× 
 
 
 
Marketing Agency 
 
× 
 
× 
× 
× 
Business Consulting 
 
 
× 
 
× 
× 
Digital Innovation Ecosystem 
× 
× 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 Summary of the cases and external actors involved 
4. Findings  
The cases highlight that while adopting digital technologies, the firms analysed involved external 
actors such as universities, hardware providers, software houses, marketing agencies and 
management consultants. SMEs involved the university in developing new “enabling” digital 
technologies for products and services (industry 4.0). The cases suggest that university involvement 
refers mostly to the engineering faculty, specifically to computer science, mechanics, and 
information engineering departments. The cases highlight the role of technology suppliers 
(hardware and software providers). Usually, the technology suppliers complete the development 
activities started by the university. When SMEs collaborate with the university, almost all the cases 
will go through the technology supplier. The technology suppliers, in some cases, also provide the 
final product ready to be commercialised or adopted in the production facility. The software houses 
usually begin by mapping internal processes to ease digitisation. For example, when SMEs adopt 
new software to enhance the company’s abilities, it usually involves software houses. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
54 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
To commercialise the new products and services enabled from the adoption of new technologies, 
from the cases emerge the role of marketing agencies and business consultants. Four out of six 
cases suggested that marketing agencies improved their ability to communicate with customers 
and stakeholders and enhance their value proposition. The study highlights that marketing agencies 
have supported companies in innovating and commercialising new products. Besides, the business 
consultants supported firms in improving their innovation process, from studying new technologies 
to managing organisational design and operations development.  
Finally, the digital innovation ecosystem played a broad role in supporting SMEs in scouting and 
adopting new technologies. The study also identifies these actors as the trait-d’union between the 
SMEs and the other partners supplying technology and know-how to exploit DTs. These actors are, 
for example, digital innovation hubs, competence centres, and research centres. 
The study found that the interaction between SMEs and external actors emerges in three business 
model’s building blocks: 
- Value Proposition: Companies involving universities and technology suppliers were usually more 
focused to innovate their value proposition. Value proposition innovation led to the development 
of new products and services (mostly digital) (Alfa, Gamma). 
- Value Creation: the interaction with marketing agencies and new technologies allowed SMEs to 
improve their ability to manage customers and suppliers. For example, the Epsilon case, where the 
company has invested in improving the communication of the value of artisanal production 
(Epsilon). 
- Value Capture: in this case, the companies that involved management consultants and marketing 
agencies have adopted an approach to enhance services with new revenue models. However, this 
innovation did not involve a technological part but a new combination of existing factors (Delta, 
Eta, Theta cases). 
The cases suggest external actors may have a different role in the BMI process depending on their 
involvement and core business. However, most of the BMI observable processes are still in 
progress. In fact, from the case analysis stems that the university is usually present in pioneering 
projects involving innovative technologies research. Particularly, from the study emerges the 
evolving role of the university. New technologies have enabled a more practical use of research and 
university activity in technological transfer. According to technology suppliers, both hardware and 
software providers, although they have been asked a more practical approach towards adopting 
digital technologies, these players also come into play before the design of the BMI is complete and 
formalised. At this level, the firm involves management consultants. They are often in charge of 
strategy design and market analysis to identify the potential innovation in the business model, 
combining digital technologies and new approaches to customers. Therefore, university and 
technology suppliers support SMEs to ensure innovation potential. The role of business consultants 
is also crucial, as they continue to support the firms developing their strategic perspectives about 
the technologies and the new products. Here SMEs are still involved in developing value proposition 
and the design of their new business model. 
Then, after the firm creates a new value proposition and completes the adoption of digital 
technologies, the actors who support the firms are mainly business consultants and marketing 
agencies. The latter is particularly useful for enhancing the new digital channels for creating new 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
55 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
robust relationships. Furthermore, these agencies allow the company to deploy activities that 
otherwise would not have yet found a place in the organisation. Here, the technology suppliers are 
involved in supplying components or the entire products and supporting the commercialisation. 
The potential opportunities and challenges arising from the external actors’ involvement in the 
business model’s innovation processes are summarised in table 5 below. The cases suggest that 
external actors’ role before starting the business model innovation process is to identify new 
opportunities. At this level, the main challenges are the firm’s ability to understand innovation 
sharing with external actors, consistent with SMEs’ investment capacity and capabilities. During 
business model innovation, the opportunity lies in developing new technologies (patented in the 
case of Alfa and Gamma) that led to new business models, while firms experiment with new 
configurations of both the strategy and business models. Identifying a path for a long-term 
innovation process addresses a major shortcoming. The risk links with firm resources scarcity. 
Finally, the challenge is to have the two business models, old and new, concurrent for a certain 
amount of time. After the firm deploys BMI, value creation and capture development issues should 
be consistent with the new value proposition. These develop in the interaction with business 
consultants and marketing agencies through new communication channels and business strategies. 
The actors also support SMEs in understanding the return on investments of these innovation 
processes. In fact, due to the length and the complexity of the business model innovation, the major 
concern of firms is to understand whether they will achieve a positive yield. 
 
 
Before 
During 
After 
External Actors 
Opportunities 
Business analysis to 
exploit the full potential 
of the firm 
Identify new viable 
technological and 
business solutions 
Develop the strategy 
Experimentation of new 
BMs 
Developing new business 
opportunities 
Challenges 
Projects might be too 
innovative for the firm 
Investment capability of 
the firm is limited 
Become to a clear path 
for technology and 
business innovation 
Coupling new and old 
business model 
Return on investment 
over time 
Table 4 - Opportunities and challenges overview 
Theoretical Contributions 
The study suggests that the external actors involved contribute to the DT adoption driving the BMI 
process from the initial steps of technology development and strategy design to the final steps of 
value capture through sales and marketing channel management. The study highlights the 
relevance of external actors in business model innovation processes involving the adoption of new 
technologies (Chesbrough, 2010). 
The cases suggest that the external actors involved in BMI are complementary according to the 
resource needed to support the firm in reaching its full potential, and their role is critical to support 
the SMEs at a broader level (Chesbrough, 2007). 
The study is in line with the previous study on BMI, suggesting difficulties in observing and 
delimitating the BMI process. Thus, the study suggests that it is useful to adopt the involvement of 
external actors and the firms’ aims to adopt and develop new products embedding DT as a proxy 
of future BMI processes (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010; Foss and Saebi, 2018). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
56 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Therefore, the study proposed a conceptual model to understand the potential role of external 
actors in the three different macro temporal frames of BMI (See Figure 1 and Table 4). The following 
table 6 summarise how every external actor engages in the SMEs BMI processes: 
MAIN ROLE 
ACTOR 
Before 
During 
After 
Value 
proposition  
University 
Technology Scouting 
Technology application 
and development 
- 
Value 
proposition  
Technology 
Provider 
Technology 
development 
Technology Deployment 
Supply of technological 
components, assembly 
or products 
Value 
Proposition 
Software 
House 
- 
Processes and services 
engineering 
Supply of software and 
further improvements 
Value Creation 
Marketing 
Agency 
- 
Analyse the new 
products or services 
communication 
Developing customers 
and relationships 
channels 
Value Capture 
Business 
Consulting 
Analyse the business 
and design the strategy 
Experimenting and 
testing of the new BM 
and Strategy 
Controlling and BM 
revision according to 
business performances 
Table 5 - External actors involvement and macro temporal frames 
The study suggests that university and technology providers support SMEs in developing their value 
proposition (Osterwalder et al., 2005, Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010). Marketing agencies have a 
stronger role in developing SMEs marketing channels and defining customers segments 
(Osterwalder et al., 2005, Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010). Business consultants, instead, seems to 
be engaged in supporting firms in the whole business model innovation process, both in defining 
the new value proposition and designing new marketing strategies in terms of marketing channels 
and customer segments; however, they focus in design new value capture mechanisms consistent 
with the new value proposition and creation (Osterwalder et al., 2005, Osterwalder and Pigneur, 
2010). 
The analysis of the challenges and the opportunities linked to the involvement of external actors in 
BMI suggests how external actors contribute to reducing the managerial backwardness of SMEs, 
such as the short-term strategic approach, the centrality of the entrepreneur, lack of resources and 
difficulties to commercialise new products (Moeuf et al. 2019; Leithold et al. 2015). The role of 
external actors, thus, can be seen not only in the development of new technological solutions 
related to the new BM but also in creating understanding and support SMEs in being aware of the 
business and technological potential that could be exploited in value creation and value capture 
(Chesbrough, 2010; Osterwalder et al., 2005). Findings also shed light on the role of external actors 
as a driver of BMI. These actors support SMEs in changing or improving their core elements and 
shifting their business logic to new avenues (Bucherer et al., 2012; Giese et al., 2010). Digitisation 
processes enhance BMI, in line with previous literature, although findings provide evidence on the 
central role of external actors to push SMEs DT adoption (Christensen et al., 2016). Thus, external 
actors play a crucial role in both DT and BMI when SMEs aims to adopt new technologies. External 
actors support SMEs in overcoming their lack of experimenting and testing new strategies and BMs 
(Bowman et al., 2018). In broader terms, findings suggest that external actors support SMEs in 
improving and developing their business potential (Chesbrough, 2010). Thus, the role of the 
external actors according to the three macro temporal frames of BMI can be summarised as follows 
(See, Figure 2). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
57 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 2 - Summary of external actors role in SMEs’ BMI 
5.1 Managerial Contributions 
The study suggests that the interaction with external actors eases SMEs BMI processes. SMEs 
overcome their typical shortcomings to innovation through the interaction with external actors. 
The study highlights that the actors support SMEs, especially in developing new technologies, 
marketing channels, and revenue models. 
However, developing new products and technologies requires a new approach to innovation. The 
study suggests that investing only in technological development is a necessary but not sufficient 
condition to favour the firm’s business model innovation. Thus, the study suggests engaging with 
different actors to identify new paths toward innovating business models’ components.  
Therefore, SMEs should pay more and more attention to involving a heterogeneous panel of actors 
in the innovation chain (as presented above) who can offer them technological and managerial 
development support. Thus, after investing in value proposition and digital technologies, SMEs 
should involve specific actors to improve their value capture and value creation mechanisms. 
The study highlights and suggests that the early involvement of these actors allows the smoothest 
innovation process. External actors’ early involvement supports SMEs’ BMI process by providing 
experience to avoid pitfalls and unexpected mistakes.  
 
 
Conclusion and Limitation and further research of the 
study 
The study sheds light on how incumbent SMEs might develop business model innovation processes 
related to adopting new digital technologies in interaction with external actors. Therefore, the 
study adds to the extant literature on BMI that developing collaboration and partnerships with 
external actors that are highly specialised in managing the exploitation of the business potential of 
digital technologies can be the key to enabling business model innovation processes. These actors 
are universities, technology providers (hardware and software), management consulting firms and 
marketing agencies.  
The study also sheds light on the different contributions these actors made according to business 
model structure. The study addresses each external actor according to the three main dimensions 
of business models, value proposition, value creation and value delivery. Accordingly, this adds to 
theory and practice, suggesting the enabler partners for incumbent SMEs looking toward business 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
58 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
model innovation. External actors can be of great support to the incumbent SMEs in closing the gap 
between the adoption of digital technologies and their exploitation through a tangible change in 
the business model structure of the firm.   
However, these partnerships are not without shortcomings. The case suggested that many 
challenges lie yet in managing the exploitation of external actors, following their guidance and 
allowing them to express their potential. Moreover, external actors’ partnerships see the SME risks 
to find in a lock-in collaboration that posits risks to the future developments of the firm. The cases 
suggested that firms lack knowledge and technological background, making them dependent on 
certain decisions and processes. 
Besides, the study has limitations in the blurred nature of the phenomenon under exploration, the 
limited number of cases analysed, and the adoption of a qualitative methodology. However, the 
results presented confirm the relevance of the phenomena and the study premises in the 
importance of shedding light on SMEs BMI processes. Further studies are suggested in this field to 
produce a thorough understanding and develop the present literature and knowledge.   
The manuscript suggests further studies to shed light on each of the partnerships addressed and a 
deeper exploration with longitudinal and cross-case comparisons. In addition, quantitative studies 
are welcomed to gather a comprehensive understanding of a phenomenon that is still uncovered. 
In addition, specific studies – both qualitative and quantitative - on the evolving role of the 
university as a partner for technological development within the business model innovation process 
are called. 
 
References 
Amit, R., & Zott, C. (2001). Value creation in e‐business. Strategic management journal, 22(6‐7), 493-520. 
Berman, S.J., Kesterson‐Townes, L., Marshall, A. and Srivathsa, R. (2012), “How cloud computing enables 
process and business model innovation”, Strategy & Leadership, Vol. 40 No. 4, pp. 27-35. 
Bouwman, H., Nikou, S., & de Reuver, M. (2019). Digitalisation, business models, and SMEs: How do business 
model innovation practices improve performance of digitalising SMEs?. Telecommunications Policy, 
101828. 
Bouwman, H., Nikou, S., Molina-Castillo, F. and de Reuver, M. (2018), “The impact of digitalisation on business 
models”, Digital Policy, Regulation and Governance, Vol. 20 No. 2, pp. 105-124. 
Bucherer, E., Eisert, U., & Gassmann, O. (2012). Towards systematic business model innovation: lessons from 
product innovation management. Creativity and innovation management, 21(2), 183-198. 
Chesbrough, H. (2007), “Business model innovation: it’s not just about technology anymore”, Strategy & 
Leadership, Vol. 35 No. 6, pp. 12-17. 
Chesbrough, H. (2010). Business model innovation: opportunities and barriers. Long Range Planning, 43(2-3), 
354-363. 
Chesbrough, H., & Bogers, M. (2014). Explicating open innovation: Clarifying an emerging paradigm for 
understanding innovation. New Frontiers in Open Innovation. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 
Forthcoming, 3-28. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
59 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Chesbrough, H., & Rosenbloom, R. S. (2002). The role of the business model in capturing value from 
innovation: evidence from Xerox Corporation’s technology spin‐off companies. Industrial and 
corporate change, 11(3), 529-555. 
Chesbrough, H., & Schwartz, K. (2007). Innovating business models with co-development partnerships. 
Research-Technology Management, 50(1), 55-59. 
Christensen, C. M., Bartman, T., & Van Bever, D. (2016). The hard truth about business model innovation. MIT 
Sloan Management Review, 58(1), 31. 
Ciulli, F., & Kolk, A. (2019). Incumbents and business model innovation for the sharing economy: Implications 
for sustainability. Journal of cleaner production, 214, 995-1010. 
Cooper, R. G. (1988). The new product process: a decision guide for management. Journal of Marketing 
Management, 3(3), 238-255. 
Corbin, J., & Strauss, A. (2015). Basics of qualitative research: Techniques and procedures for developing 
grounded theory. Sage publications. 
Cucculelli, M., Peruzzi, V. (2020) Post-crisis firm survival, business model changes, and learning: evidence from 
the Italian manufacturing industry. Small Bus Econ 54, 459–474.   
Eisenhardt, K.M. (1989). Building theories from case study research. Academy of management review, 14(4), 
532-550. 
Eisenhardt, K.M., & Graebner, M.E. (2007). Theory building from cases: Opportunities and challenges. 
Academy of management journal, 50(1), 25-32. 
Elia, G., Margherita, A., & Passiante, G. (2020). Digital entrepreneurship ecosystem: How digital technologies 
and collective intelligence are reshaping the entrepreneurial process. Technological Forecasting and 
Social Change, 150, 119791. 
Foss, N. J., & Saebi, T. (2018). Business models and business model innovation: Between wicked and 
paradigmatic problems. Long Range Planning, 51(1), 9-21. 
Foss, N. J., & Saebi, T. (Eds.). (2015). Business model innovation: The organisational dimension. OUP Oxford. 
Frankenberger, K., Weiblen, T., Csik, M., & Gassmann, O. (2013). The 4I-framework of business model 
innovation: A structured view on process phases and challenges. International journal of product 
development, 18(3/4), 249-273. 
Habtay, S. R., & Holmén, M. (2014). Incumbents’ responses to disruptive business model innovation: The 
moderating role of technology vs market-driven innovation. International Journal of 
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management 11, 18(4), 289-309. 
Ibarra, D., Ganzarain, J., Igartua, J. I. (2018). Business model innovation through Industry 4.0: A review. 
Procedia Manufacturing, 22, 4-10. 
Khanagha, S., Volberda, H. & Oshri, I. (2014). Business model renewal and ambidexterity: structural alteration 
and strategy formation process during transition to a cloud business model. R&D Management, 
44(January 2013), 322–340.  
Kiel, D., Arnold, C., & Voigt, K. I. (2017). The influence of the Industrial Internet of Things on business models 
of established manufacturing companies–A business level perspective. Technovation, 68, 4-19. 
Legner, C., Eymann, T., Hess, T. et al. (2017) Digitalisation: Opportunity and Challenge for the Business and 
Information 
Systems 
Engineering 
Community. 
Bus 
Inf 
Syst 
Eng 
59, 
301–308. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12599-017-0484-2 
Leithold N., Haase H., Lautenschläger A., (2015), “Stage-Gate® for SMEs: a qualitative study in Germany”, 
European Journal of Innovation Management, Vol. 18 Iss 2 pp. 130 – 149 
Liu, P., & Bell, R. (2019). Exploration of the initiation and process of business model innovation of successful 
Chinese ICT enterprises. Journal of Entrepreneurship in Emerging Economies. 
Magretta, J. (2002). Why business models matter, Harvard Business Review, 3-8. 
Markides, C., & Charitou, C. D. (2004). Competing with dual business models: A contingency approach. 
Academy of Management Perspectives, 18(3), 22-36. 
Matt, C., Hess, T., & Benlian, A. (2015). Digital transformation strategies. Business & information systems 
engineering, 57(5), 339-343. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
60 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Moeuf, A., Pellerin, R., Lamouri, S., Tamayo-Giraldo, S., & Barbaray, R. (2018). The industrial management of 
SMEs in the era of Industry 4.0. International Journal of Production Research, 56(3), 1118-1136. 
Müller, J. M., Buliga, O., & Voigt, K. I. (2018). Fortune favors the prepared: How SMEs approach business 
model innovations in Industry 4.0. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 132, 2-17. 
Ojasalo, J., & Kauppinen, H. (2016). Collaborative innovation with external actors: an empirical study on open 
innovation platforms in smart cities. Technology Innovation Management Review, 6(12). 
Osterwalder, A., & Pigneur, Y. (2010). Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game changers, 
and challengers. John Wiley & Sons. 
Osterwalder, A., Pigneur, Y., & Tucci, C. L. (2005). Clarifying business models: Origins, present, and future of 
the concept. Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 16(1), 1. 
Schneider, S. (2019). How to approach business model innovation: the role of opportunities in times of (no) 
exogenous change. R&D Management, 49(4), 399-420. 
Teece, D. J. (2010). Business models, business strategy and innovation. Long Range Planning, 43(2-3), 172-
194 
Vial, G. (2019). Understanding digital transformation: A review and a research agenda. The Journal of 
Strategic Information Systems. 
Winterhalter, S., Weiblen, T., Wecht, C.H. and Gassmann, O. (2017), "Business model innovation processes in 
large corporations: insights from BASF", Journal of Business Strategy, Vol. 38 No. 2, pp. 62-75. 
Yin, R.K. (2014). Case study research and applications: Design and methods. Sage publications 
Zott, C., & Amit, R. H. (2008). The Fit Between Product Market Strategy and Business Model: Implications for 
Firm Performance. Strategic Management Journal, 29 (1), 1-26. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
61 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Appendix A 
Case Company 
Alfa 
Case Profile 
Alfa sells tapes and adhesives for industrial printing. The firm focuses on innovation 
through the partnership with University. They developed a machine for industrial printing 
that is Industry 4.0 technology compliant. Alfa has about 6 million euros turnover and 
about 30 employees. 
Background 
The firm was founded by a sales-oriented entrepreneur who is still managing the firm. The 
firm has its focus on commercial activities. Since the beginning, alfa worked as a distributor 
of industrial printing’s tapes and adhesives for multinational producers. The company 
experienced steady growth, which opened several new avenues. One of them was the 
research and development programs developed with the two universities: The latter 
collaboration brought the development of new Industry 4.0 printers that promise to cut 
costs and support users in being more sustainable.   
BMI and DT Focus 
The company was not familiar with digital technologies. Although it has developed an 
Industry 4.0 compliant product, the firm still lacks know-how on digital tools. Lacking digital 
technologies adoption goes to detriment also to the firm’s capabilities to develop its 
business model; in other words, in how to design and enact business model innovation. 
Background of the key 
informant 
Sales executive, owner of the firm since the beginning. 
External actors  
University, Technology Provider, Innovation Ecosystem 
Digitisation approach 
The firm invested in producing industrial printers compliant with Industry 4.0 paradigm. 
Thus, they embedded digital technologies within industrial printers. 
BMI potential effects 
Attract new customer segments, new sales and relationship channels. Then, with the new 
machinery, they can also improve their core business of tape and printing consumable 
distribution. 
TABLE 1 - ALFA CASE PROFILE 
 
Case Company 
Gamma 
Case Profile 
Gamma produces and sells high-end coffee machines. Gamma has a turnover of about 80 
million euros and about 100 employees. 
Background 
Gamma historically produces and sells high-end coffee machines. They invested in the 
internationalisation strategy to expand their business network. Gamma is considered one 
of the best coffee machine producers globally. For that reason, Gamma decided to invest in 
the technological development of its machines together with UNIVPM and several other 
technology providers.  
BMI and DT Focus 
Gamma begins to study how to embed digital technologies within their coffee machines 
together with University. These technologies based on data are for predictive 
maintenance, understanding customer behaviour, optimising costs, and increasing 
revenue. Besides, the firm adopted a new approach with digital marketing technologies by 
developing a new web platform where they commercialise machines and spare parts. 
Finally, the firm digitised several internal processes, such as an e-learning program for 
customers, employee training, and paperless bureaucracy. Despite a deep involvement of 
digital technologies in production, products and management, the firm has still not 
achieved a new business model. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
62 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Background of the key 
informant 
COO and CTO of the firm. They do not own shares of the firm. 
External Actors  
University, Technology provider, Software House, Innovation Ecosystem, Marketing 
Agency. 
Digitisation approach 
Gamma approach to digitisation is pervasive. The firm strongly believes that DTs might 
improve their production, sales, and coffee machines performance. However, they manage 
a group of technological suppliers because they do not have enough internal know-how 
and resources.  
BMI potential effects 
The investment in digitisation and the collaboration with external partners should open 
soon many new opportunities for the firm; however, the firm now is still searching for a 
technological setup. 
TABLE 2 - GAMMA CASE PROFILE 
 
Case Company 
Delta 
Case Profile 
Delta manufactures, applies and commercialise epoxy resins for floors and waterproofing. 
Delta has a turnover of about 3 million euros and about 13 employees. 
Background 
Delta applies epoxy resins and waterproofing for industrial floors since the beginning of the 
1970s. Delta has a small production facility that blends resins for internal use and a small 
part of commercialisation. The firm adopted new technologies only in business 
management, such as ERP and CRM software.  
BMI and DT Focus 
The firm started collaborating with a consulting firm to deploy digital marketing 
operations. The firm has changed its business model over time, shifting from floor 
application to waterproofing and production and commercialisation. Although, its digital 
technologies adoption is still weak, mostly applying organisational and sales operation 
management technologies. The firm is planning to develop new projects that will involve 
the adoption of the different meanings of digital technologies.  
Background of the key 
informant 
CEO, owner of the firm, took the lead after his father. 
External Actors  
Business consulting, Software house. 
Digitisation approach 
The firm involved external partners in understanding where and how to adopt digital 
technologies and design how these might contribute to developing a new business model. 
Then, involved a software house to develop all the digital tools demanded from the 
designed strategy. 
BMI potential Effects 
The potential effects on the BM brought by the introduction of digital technologies might 
be addressed mainly on the firm capability to reach new customer segments and open new 
distribution and communication channels.  
TABLE 3 - DELTA CASE PROFILE 
 
Case Company 
Epsilon 
Case Profile 
Founded in the early 1970s, Epsilon is an Italian luxury shoemaker. Epsilon is a medium 
company with a turnover of about 14 million and about 60 employees. 
Background 
Epsilon is a handmade shoemaker who aims to combine tradition and style to produce 
classic leather shoes both for men and women. Although the firm dwells in a traditional 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
63 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
sector as shoemaking, they challenge the status quo by embracing digital technologies. The 
firm adopts digital technologies following the craftsmanship and heritage of shoemaking. 
The adoption of new digital technologies started from adopting a new ERP. Then, the firm 
manages to embed digital technologies also to machines through sensors to acquire data 
about leathers and materials. These technologies are leather-cutting machines and other 
shoemaking machines. The adoption of those technologies improves the controlling 
capability of the firm to acquire new data on the production processes. Other technologies 
(e.g., visors and CRM) were adopted to enhance customer relationships and exploit 
handmade processes.  
BMI and DT Focus 
The firm developed paramount investments in digital technologies for the traceability of 
every single production process. Also, find new ways to communicate with business actors 
such as shops and wholesalers. Besides the technologies deployed in the production 
facility, the firm adopted new ERP and CRM to improve business and customers 
management. Although the investments in digital technologies, the firm seems still looking 
to identify a major change in its business. 
Background of the key 
informant 
Temporary CFO. He does not own shares of the firm. 
External Actors 
involved 
University, Technology Provider, Marketing Agency. 
Digitisation approach 
The firm introduced new technologies to enhance the customer experience and 
communicate its artisanal approach to traditional shoemaking. In partnership with the 
University, which supports their whole digital innovation processes, they introduced new 
ways of cutting leather by adopting Big Data CAD/CAM machines and software. Then, they 
integrated smart visors (Smart devices) along the whole production process to record every 
production process and create a story behind each pair of shoes produced. The aim is to 
make craftmanship visible and give value to artisans. Also, these technologies enhance the 
traceability of the production; thus, it makes the firm’s efforts visible to the customers. 
BMI potential effects 
Notwithstanding these efforts on developing innovation and adopting new digital 
technologies along the whole production process, the firm’s business model is still the 
same: the production and commercialisation of high-end classic Italian handmade shoes.  
The technology adopted could only support the firm in improving its cost and revenue 
management capabilities and developing the customers’ experience in the purchase 
process.  
TABLE 4 - EPSILON CASE PROFILE 
 
Case Company 
Eta 
Case Profile 
Eta is a car dealer of two worldwide automotive manufacturers, one in the premium 
segment and one in the generalist segment. Eta is a medium-firm with about 60 million 
euros revenue and 100 employees. 
Background 
Eta begins in the late fifties. Since the beginning, the firm’s core business has been the 
sales and distribution of cars. Since then, they acquired and developed several partnerships 
with worldwide automotive manufacturers. The firm has five business units: car sales, car 
repair, rent, insurance, and administration services. Since the automotive industry’s 
evolution, the firm was pushed by its partners to develop and adopt digital technologies to 
support sales and marketing activities. Nowadays, the firm is keen on developing new 
solutions to enhance its capability to develop and maintain the relationship with business 
actors and a private consumer. They support the development of these new solutions and 
the adoption of digital technologies such as software or digital marketing channels. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
64 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
BMI and DT Focus 
Since the firm has multiple business units, digital technologies seem pervasive, especially in 
linking information in those activities that involve customer management and the 
operation of marketing activities. The firm adopted a wide range of software such as ERP, 
CRM and warehouse management. Besides, the firm developed a new e-commerce 
platform to ease the commercialisation of used and new vehicles. These innovations 
related to digital technologies might be crucial to surviving in a hyper-competitive industry 
such as automotive.  
Background of the key 
informant 
Sales manager, board of directors, owners, family member 
External Actors 
involved 
Business Consultant, Software House. 
Digitisation approach 
Before, they used only the ERP, CRMs and instant messaging to smooth communication 
between employees and customers. Nowadays, they are working to open new digital 
channels and in developing a digitalised sales approach that aims to create a new 
competitive advantage.  
BMI potential effects 
The major effects of the last investments in digitisation could greatly contribute to re-
shaping the firm’s business model’s value-capture and value-creation building blocks. The 
major innovation relates to their business model’s value proposition, communication and 
relationships channels, and key partnerships. Even if the process is still slow due to the 
dimension and background of the firm, they have embarked on a trajectory that potentially 
may lead to the adoption of new business models. 
TABLE 5 - ETA CASE PROFILE 
 
Case Company 
Teta 
Case Profile 
Teta commercialises and applies synthetic turf for private users and business surfaces. Teta 
is a micro-firm, with total revenue of about 1 million euro and about four employees. 
Background 
Teta commercialises and applied synthetic turf for ten years. The firm stems from the 
ashes of the previous business of the founder. Since the founder’s son is a digital marketing 
and social media expert, they developed a new venture that could benefit from their 
backgrounds. The firm’s strategic approach is to sell these turfs via e-commerce. 
BMI and DT Focus 
The company developed digital technologies to manage the commercialisation and 
customer relationship process. The business model changed several times for the influence 
of the strategic decision of the founder to change customer segment and to change the 
value proposition. The first regarded shift from private users to business users. The second 
regarded the shift from different typologies of turf and application services and 
intermediaries in the distribution and applications. Within these change processes, digital 
technologies support the firm in deploying a broader marketing strategy. 
Background of the key 
informant 
Owner (sales and fitting) and owner’s son (digital marketing and social media) 
External Actors 
Involved 
Business Consultant, marketing agency. 
Digitisation approach 
The digitisation approach provided by the owner’s son started after the crisis of the 
building sector in Italy. They reinvent a construction company to a synthetic turf fitter for 
private houses, businesses and public buildings. They use digital marketing channels to 
reach customers and sell projects. They also developed software to manage customers 
opportunities and the status of several works in progress. The business consultants 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
65 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
supported the firm in developing a business analysis and defining the strategy to expand 
geographically. 
BMI potential effects 
The effects of digitisation on the firm’s business model were relevant to value capture and 
value creation. The firm developed new products that are sold only in the firm’s e-
commerce. Moreover, the firm deployed a network of fitters by using digital marketing 
channels 
TABLE 6 - TETA CASE PROFILE 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
66 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Integrating justice and collective 
value creation  
Collaborative business model for just protein transition 
Ari Paloviita1,* , Teea Kortetmäki1 
1Department of Social Sciences and Philosophy, University of 
Jyväskylä, Finland  
*ari.paloviita@jyu.fi  
Abstract 
Just transition is needed to ensure that the transition towards a low-carbon economy happens in a 
fair way. Collaborative business model through collective value creation can contribute to just 
transition across the boundaries of private, public and non-profit sectors within and outside the 
value chain. This paper integrates the concepts of justice and collective value creation with 
collaborative business model for just transition and presents an illustrative case of just protein 
transition.  
Keywords  
Justice, collective value creation, collaborative business model, just transition, food system  
Introduction  
Transition to low-carbon economy requires changes in business models on what value is created, 
how, and to whom, as every transition has its winners and its losers, both economically and in terms 
of social justice (Lennon et al., 2019). It is important to note, that transition is more about multiple 
social interests than individual (organizational) interests (Jonker et al., 2020). We argue that 
integrating the concept of justice into collaborative business model (CBM) and collective value 
creation (CVC) can increase the legitimacy, acceptability and effectiveness of low-carbon transition 
in the society. There is a gap in business model research addressing the dimensions and principles 
of justice. However, especially in CBM networks, trusting and reciprocal relationships with 
stakeholders are crucial. Harrison et al. (2010) argued that stakeholder management based on 
distributional, procedural and interactional justice can unlock additional potential and conditions 
for value creation process. Hence, justice and fairness are key considerations for stakeholder 
management (Bosse et al., 2009) and CBMs.   
This short paper fuses justice and business model literature and aims to identify areas where justice 
perspective can influence value creation practices. An illustrative case, just protein transition in 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
67 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Finland, is presented to show how the integrated framework of CVC and justice can be applied to 
food system transition. To the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first attempt to integrate 
justice approach and CBM for transition. Its novelty is in proposing a practical way of connecting 
CBM literature with policy and business relevant justice literature.  
Collective value creation for transition  
Collective or multiple value creation for low-carbon transition requires extending the traditional 
business model from organization-centered business model towards value creation through 
collaborations in hubs, networks and chains. Firm-level construct of the business model and a firm-
level unit of analysis are inadequate to respond to the challenges of low-carbon transition (Diener 
et al., 2021). In contrast, collaborative hub-level, network-level or chain-level construct of the 
business model is able to engage a wider spectrum of stakeholders and actors for transition. These 
actors may represent private, public or non-profit sectors and may be located within and outside 
the conventional value chain. Hence, participating actors can differ in type and in position in the 
value chain/ network (Jonker et al., 2020). For example, Mihailova et al. (2022) discuss the many 
roles of energy citizens in CVC for energy transition. In addition, CBMs need supportive regulative, 
financial and technical environment and governance frameworks (Hiteva and Sovacool, 2017). The 
blurring of the private-public boundaries and blending of corporate and social missions, however, 
requires successful collaboration and trust between the parties. Trust, defined as ‘the mutual 
confidence that no party to an exchange will exploit another’s vulnerabilities’ (Barney and Hansen, 
1994: 176), is an essential ingredient in CVC (Harrison et al., 2010).  
Compared to conventional business models, CBMs are better suited for justice considerations, as 
they are inherently open for multiple stakeholders and values, which are necessary for just 
transition. Literature on integrated value creation highlights that value creation stems from 
resources exchanged in relationships within the value creation network (Norris et al., 2021). A 
stakeholder theory perspective on business models is useful in understanding the stakeholder value 
creation network and mutual stakeholder relationships in which stakeholders are both recipients 
and co-creators of value in joint value creation processes (Freudenreich et al., 2019). Value creation, 
defined as collaborative effort in relationships, can benefit the business and all its stakeholders by 
asking with and for whom value is being created (Freeman, 2010; Freudenreich et al., 2019). CBM 
actors can contribute to three central elements of CVC: (1) what value is created, (2) how it is 
created, and (3) how it is distributed. This is in line with the study of Freudenreich et al. (2019), who 
argue that the concept and analysis of value creation through business models need to consider 
different types of value created with and for different stakeholders and the resulting value 
portfolio. 
Traditional business models focus on creating financial value for the focal company and its 
shareholders.  CVC, where various actors create more than just financial value by expanding the 
range of values, emphasizes proactive value creation for society by finding solutions to social and 
environmental challenges and needs (Hiteva and Sovacool, 2017). It is associated with the creation 
of shared values (Porter and Kramer, 2011), which simultaneously creates societal value(s) and 
economic value for the value chain actors. Hence, extending the considered value range can be 
traced to social and environmental drivers, which can inspire participating organizations in a CBM 
to take greater responsibility towards society and nature (Foxon et al., 2015; Jonker et al., 2020).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
68 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Actors’ perceptions on fairness in value creation and distribution depend much on reciprocity, 
which can be understood as a universally accepted moral norm (Dunfee, 2006; Harrison et al., 
2010). For example, a firm with low accounting-based profitability may create a lot of value but 
allocate most of it to stakeholders, society and the environment (Harrison et al. 2010). In the value 
creation process it is also important to discuss those who are left behind and the underlying moral 
and ethical implications of such distribution (Hiteva and Sovacool, 2017). Simultaneously, fair 
distribution of value across the network can increase trust and reciprocity between participants 
upon which just transition is built. We argue that the principles of justice can be useful in increasing 
trust and reciprocity between multiple actors of CVC. Additionally, justice approach helps identify 
alternative values and actors who are invisible, vulnerable or excluded.  
Social justice, just transition and integration to collective 
value creation  
While justice was initially associated only with nation states’ activities, recent corporate 
responsibility literature proposes that organizations’ responsibilities for justice go beyond 
regulatory compliance (and voluntary CSR). For example, corporate responsibilities to protect and 
even fulfil human rights (instead of merely respecting them) stem from the significant power of 
corporations (Mills and Karp, 2015). Corporations exercise power in public decision-making 
(lobbying) and via significant influence on some stakeholders, such as employees and their families, 
and communities involved in value chain activities. Justice in organizational activities can be urged 
for both normative reasons, i.e. legitimacy (it is morally unacceptable that corporations act 
unjustly), and instrumental reasons: distributional justice literature suggests that stakeholders’ 
willingness to fully collaborate is related to their perception of the fair value they receive, relative 
to the value other stakeholders receive (Harrison et al., 2010). 
From the competing notions of justice, we use the well-established idea of relational social justice. 
Social justice concerns how societies’ basic structures impact on the equality of people (relative to 
given standards). We adopt a theoretical framework of relational social justice that conceptualizes 
justice comprising of three dimensions (Table 1). Distributive justice is about the fair distribution of 
benefits and burdens; procedural justice means equal participatory opportunities in decision-
making; and recognition justice means institutional patterns that support equal socio-cultural 
statuses instead of value hierarchies that might marginalize certain groups due to their socio-
cultural, ethnic, or other differences (Fraser, 2009; Schlosberg, 2007).1 The framework is spatially 
extensive: actions can be just near yet unjust to distant people, like in the case of climate change 
(Schlosberg, 2007).2  
 
 
1 Management studies also speak of interactional justice, “fairness in the way that stakeholders are treated 
in transactions with the firm” (Harrison et al. 2010). Interactional and recognition justice have been used as 
synonyms referring ”to recognizing the needs, values, and preferences of all stakeholders in a safe, fair, and 
non-discriminatory environment” (Kronenberg et al., 2020). 
2 The relational notion of social justice has also become well-established in the environmental contexts, 
because for example environmentally locally impactful industrial activities (such as the placement of 
hazardous waste stream materials or the placement of polluting factories) have often been carried out 
without the consultation of the local communities. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
69 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Dimension of 
justice 
Focus 
Examples in CVC 
Distributive 
justice 
The proportional distribution 
of benefits and harms 
Fair distribution and value allocation; 
identification of non-financial values 
Procedural 
justice 
Opportunities to participate 
in decision-making; balanced 
power relations 
Fair and respectful treatment of 
stakeholders in decision-making 
processes; less opportunistic use of 
power; increased trust and reciprocity 
Recognition 
justice 
Socio-cultural inclusion and 
respect in institutionalized 
practices  
Identification of non-evident (non-
visible, vulnerable, excluded) actors; 
respectful treatment of differences; 
increased trust and reciprocity 
Table 1. Dimensions of justice, their focus and examples in CVC. 
The three-dimensional framework has become common in just transition studies that concern how 
the transformation to low-carbon societies could be made as fairly as possible (e.g., Williams & 
Doyon, 2019; Newell & Mulvaney, 2015; McCauley & Heffron, 2018). Just transition acknowledges 
that while emission mitigation is crucial for avoiding dangerous climate change, mitigation itself will 
have transformative economic and socio-cultural impacts on societies that need attention in the 
course of transition. Just transition has widened from employment focus to involve any injustices 
that low-carbon transition may bring about (Kaljonen et al., 2021). This is crucial for food systems 
discussed in the demonstrative case, since required transformations are there significant and food 
is so culturally/socially embedded that food system transitions invoke difficult tensions and value 
conflicts (Kaljonen et al., 2021). Just transition is important both for legitimacy and sustainable 
development. 
Because achieving a low-carbon, climate resilient society is a non-economic value and many 
companies are engaging in climate mitigation, just transition framework offers a good platform for 
integrating justice considerations and CVC. However, justice requires clarification regarding 
whom/what should be given consideration (and how) in low-carbon transitions for the sake of 
justice (Tribaldos & Kortetmäki, 2022). Because promoting justice and low-carbon transition both 
contribute to the social value creation in CBM activities, integrating these perspectives seems a 
well-made match. However, just transition also complexifies emission mitigation demands and 
raises new questions (Kaljonen et al., 2021; Williams & Doyon, 2019). We suggest that the CVC 
endeavors would benefit from a just transition tool, based on the principles for just transition 
(Tribaldos & Kortetmäki) but adapted fit to the CBM context. The tool would help the network 
participants discuss and clarify the values and goals of collaboration from the just transition 
viewpoint and risks that need to be taken into account. 
A framework-based just transition tool for CBMs could help: 
Foster trustful and reciprocal collaborative relations by suggesting principles for fair collaboration. 
Make different actors visible in the CVC network, fostering the recognition of non-paid work and 
nature’s contributions. 
Promote more balanced collaboration prospects between network members by helping identify 
vulnerable groups and power and resource disparities. 
Clarify values that are created by the CVC and for whom. The latter question is also important for 
distributional justice. 
Bridge social and environmental responsibilities. 
Just protein transition through collective value creation  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
70 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
To illustrate our framework-based tool for transition, we apply it to protein transition in the Finnish 
food system. Dietary change or transition has been recognized as one of the transition pathways 
towards low-carbon food system in Finland, in addition to land use change and technological 
changes, and protein transition as a part of dietary transition constitutes eating considerably less 
animal-based and more plant-based and alternative sources of protein (Paloviita, 2021). Dietary 
transition widens the justice considerations in transitions to basic needs, food security and nutrition 
(Kaljonen et al., 2021). Justice approach can pave the way for just protein transition by helping 
identify actors of value creation network and multiple values to be created and distributed. 
Protein transition requires CVC related to plant-based proteins and less commonly known protein 
sources, such as microbe-based proteins, fungi-based proteins, underutilized fish species and 
insects. In Finland, CBM called “protein cluster” was launched in 2020 by Ministry of Agriculture 
and Forestry, the Finnish Cereal Committee and VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland to 
promote the functioning of Finnish plant and alternative protein value chains (Lampinen et al., 
2021). Collaborative value creation network of the protein cluster includes participants at different 
levels. The primary level contains the most important actors in the entire value chain from the field 
to the table, from farmers to consumers. The secondary level has parties supporting or promoting 
the activities, such as decision-makers, associations and financers. Participants of the tertiary level 
cross sectoral boundaries and shape the general market, such as investors, authorities, government 
and health actors. According to the first workshops of the protein cluster, the greatest challenge 
identified was the lack of trust between actors (Lampinen et al., 2021). 
We next provide the preliminary version of the just transition tool for CBMs and discuss, with 
examples, how it could help promote more trustful and reciprocal relationships in the context of 
protein transition (Table 2). Due to the very limited space here, our exploration is by no means 
comprehensive but aims to shed light on how the tool highlights different viewpoints to just 
transition via CVC in protein transition. 
General principle  
Examples of action principles for trustful and just CBMs for low-
carbon transition 
Right to vital goods The possibility of people to achieve food and nutrition security is 
supported.  
Just supply chains  
and fair livelihoods 
Established food chain relations are reciprocally agreeable. 
Collaborative networks are designed so that different sized actors 
are able to participate in them. 
Procedural justice 
Collaborative processes are sufficiently transparent, inclusive, and 
provide a fair opportunity for different voices to be heard. 
Respectful pluralism 
and  
esteem recognition 
Traditional, indigenous, and local knowledge is respected and given 
a voice. 
Contributions by different professions and by genders are 
recognised and esteemed.  
Non-discrimination People are not discriminated on ethnic, gender, or age-related 
grounds.  
Global fairness  
Activities respect the participatory control over, and access to, 
productive resources elsewhere in the world.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
71 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Activities for decarbonisation do not undermine fair livelihood 
opportunities for distant actors. 
Ecological integrity 
  
  
Soil, water, and air health and quality are protected or improved. 
Biodiversity is protected or increased. 
Justice to 
nonhumans 
The inherent value of nonhumans is respected, and they are 
treated respectfully. 
Capacities 
Developing individuals’ skills for transition activities is supported. 
Table 2. General principles of justice and examples of action principles for CBMs for low-carbon 
transition. 
Just supply chains and fair livelihoods are central issues in creating new, low-carbon protein value 
chains. How do new protein value chains impact on farmers? A minimum condition for just 
transition is that the new value chains do not worsen the profitability of farming that has been 
identified indecent; oftentimes, improving the status of farmers can be demanded. Improvements 
can be economic or non-economic, helping farmers build capacities for climate mitigation and 
adaptation, increase livelihood security, or otherwise support their well-being and the recognition 
of their work. This could be addressed in a CBM by involving farmers or farmers union as key 
stakeholders for identifying priorities and values related to livelihoods or power disparities in supply 
chains.  
Procedural justice concerns collaborative relations and ethical stakeholder management. CBMs 
necessitate transparency and dialogical relations, treating diverse views respectfully and examining 
dominant value patterns critically. For example, trustful collaboration requires openness to 
different visions, so that the dominant socio-cultural views do not ignore, disparage, or exclude the 
visions represented by other parties in the collaborative network. Respectful consideration also 
calls for rethinking network actors: for example, the protein cluster represents ’the usual suspects’ 
as constituting the protein transition networks, but just transition tool asks whether there are 
actors who should be made visible, or actors whose contribution to the CVC should be better 
recognized. This urges openness to the diversity of values and goods that can be created by protein 
transition activities. Alongside economic goods and emission mitigation, created values may 
concern health benefits, biodiversity protection, food culture renewal, capacity building for actors, 
accessible innovations, and increased inclusiveness – just to name few. This could be addressed in 
a CBM by involving public health organizations and nutrition experts as key stakeholders for 
identifying values related to health and wellbeing of diverse populations.   
Capacity building is integral to CBM: collaboration itself is purported to yield something greater 
than its parts alone. In Finland, obstacles to protein transition include the lack of processing 
facilities, socio-cultural factors, misconceptions downplaying the benefits of novel products, and 
insufficient research and innovation. In the traditional business models enterprises have focused 
solely on fostering their own capacities to increase competitive advantage; CBM changes this 
perspective. One key for mutually beneficial capacity building in protein transition is more open 
knowledge exchange between different types of actors. Collaboration between companies and 
research groups exemplifies such collaboration, and research groups are often also skilled in 
promoting a more inclusive participation in the CBMs. This could be addressed in a CBM by involving 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
72 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
a broad set of civic organizations and community groups as key stakeholders for identifying 
concerns related to socio-cultural values.      
Discussion and conclusion  
This article contributes to new business model research by applying a theory of social justice to CVC 
in a business model. This study revealed the potential of integrating the principles of social justice 
into CVC for low-carbon transition. Addressing different dimensions of social justice in CVC can 
ultimately increase trust and reciprocity between participating actors. Including distributional 
justice in CBM promotes fair distribution and allocation of value across the value network. As 
genuinely fair distribution of tangible and intangible value among stakeholders is difficult, 
procedural justice can compensate the potential unfairness of value distribution by emphasizing 
the fair decision-making process and respectful treatment of stakeholders. Recognitive justice, in 
turn, helps identify excluded, vulnerable and non-visible actors, who are affected by the low-carbon 
transition but are not initially included in the value network construct. Social justice perspective 
combined with a stakeholder theory perspective on business models emphasizes business models 
as devices that organize and facilitate trustful and reciprocal stakeholder relationships and fair 
value exchanges.  
Strengthening the link between justice and CBM can accelerate transition to low-carbon economy 
by increasing acceptability and legitimacy of radical change among stakeholders of business model 
transformation. Successful involvement of key stakeholders, development of a collective vision and 
creation of a joint transition agenda for CBM depend much on perceptions of fairness among CBM 
actors. Hence, the participatory design of CBM can be strengthened by justice considerations. 
Development of support among stakeholders for transition can benefit from a just transition tool 
presented in this paper. Our illustrative case of protein transition highlights the importance of the 
principles of justice in dietary transition towards plant-based and alternative protein sources. We 
hope that the insights in this paper will contribute to more ethical value creation in CBMs, which 
highlight the active contributions from and engagement of stakeholders to transition through fair 
CVC processes. 
Acknowledgements 
This research was funded by the Strategic Research Council of Academy of Finland (JUST-FOOD, 
grant number 327369).   
References 
Atteridge, A., Strambo, C. (2020) Seven principles to realize a just transition to a low-carbon economy. 
Stockholm Environment Institute, Stockholm. 
Barney, J.B., Hansen, M.H. (1994) Trustworthiness as a source of competitive advantage. Strategic 
management journal. 15, 175-190. 
Bosse, D.A., Phillips, R.A., Harrison, J.S. (2009) Stakeholders, reciprocity, and firm performance. Strategic 
management journal. 30 (4), 447-456. 
Diener, D., Fallahi, S., Mellquist, A.-C., Vanacore, E. (2021) Ways of operating in business ecosystems to drive 
circular transitions. In: Hoveskog, M., and Halila, F. (eds), Proceedings of the 6th International 
Conference on New Business Models: New Business Models in a Decade of Action: Sustainable, 
Evidence-based, Impactful, 9-11 June 2021, Halmstad, Sweden. Halmstad University, pp. 150-156.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
73 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Dunfee, T.W. (2006) A critical perspective of integrative social contracts theory: recurring criticisms and next 
generation research topics. Journal of Business Ethics 68 (3), 303-328.  
Foxon, T., Bale, C., Busch, J., Bush, R., Hall, S., Roelich, K. (2015) Low-carbon infrastructure investment: 
extending business models for sustainability. Infrastrucure complexity. 2 (4), Available from:  
https://doi.org/10.1186/s40551-015-0009-4. [Accessed 12th January 2022] 
Fraser, N. (2009) Scales of justice: Reimagining political space in a globalizing world. Columbia, Columbia 
University Press. 
Freeman, E. (2010) Managing for stakeholders: Trade-offs or value creation. Journal of Business Ethics. 96, 
7-9. 
Freudenreich, B., Lüdeke-Freund, F., Schaltegger, S. (2019) A stakeholder theory perspective on business 
models: Value creation for sustainability. Journal of Business Ethics. 166, 3-18. 
Harrison, J.S., Bosse, D.A., Phillips, R.A. (2010) Managing for stakeholders, stakeholder utility functions, and 
competitive advantage. Strategic management journal. 31 (1), 58-74. 
Hiteva, R., Sovacool, B. (2017) Harnessing social innovation for energy justice: A business model perspective. 
Energy policy. 107, 631-639.  
Jonker, J., Berkers, F., Derks, M., Navarro, N.M., Wieclawska, S., Speijer, F., Ploegman, K., Engels, H. (2020) 
Collaborative 
business 
models 
for 
transition. 
TNO 
report. 
Available 
from: 
https://repository.tno.nl/islandora/object/uuid%3A7361e81d-ad35-4ed2-affb-a6baff36de24. 
[Accessed: 12th January 2022). 
Kaljonen, M., Kortetmäki, T., Tribaldos, T., Huttunen, S., Karttunen, K., Maluf, R.S., Niemi, J., Saarinen, M., 
Salminen, J., Vaalavuo, M., Valsta. L. (2021) Justice in transitions: Widening considerations of justice 
in dietary transition. Environmental innovation and societal transitions. 40, 474-485. 
Kronenberg, J., Haase, A., Laszkievicz, E., Antal, A., Baravikova, A., Biernacka, M., Dushkova, D., Filcak, R., 
Haase, D., Ignatieva, M., Khmara, Y., Nita, M.R., Onose, D.A. (2020) Environmental justice in the 
context of urban green space availability, accessibility, and attractiveness in postsocialist cities. 
Cities. 106: 1-13. 
Lampinen, M., Voutilainen, E., Mattila, E., Nordlund, E. (2021) Protein cluster to speed up national co-
operation 
– 
Ecosystem 
model 
as 
a 
practical 
implementation. 
Available 
from: 
https://publications.vtt.fi/julkaisut/muut/2021/Protein_cluster_Report.pdf [Accessed 20th June, 
2022]  
Lennon, B., Dunphy, N.P., Sanvicente, E. (2019) Community acceptability and the energy transition: a citizen’s 
perspective. Energy, sustainability and society. 9 (1), 1-18. 
McCauley, D., Heffron, R.J., (2018) Just transition: integrating climate, energy and environmental justice. 
Energy Policy. 119: 1–7. 
Mihailova, D., Schubert, I., Burger, P., Fritz, M.M.C. (2022) Exploring modes of sustainable value co-creation 
in renewable energy communities. Journal of Cleaner Production. 330. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.129917.    
Mills, K. and Karp, D. J. (Eds.) (2015) Human rights protection in global politics: Responsibilities of states and 
non-state actors. New York?, Palgrave Macmillan. 
Newell, P., & Mulvaney, D. (2013) The political economy of the ‘just transition’. The Geographical Journal. 
179(2), 132–140. 
Norris, S., Hagenbeck, J., Schaltegger, S. (2021) Linking sustainable business models and supply chains – 
toward an integrated value creation framework. Business Strategy and the Environment. 30(8), 
3960-3974. 
Paloviita, A. (2021) Developing a matrix framework for protein transition towards more sustainable diets. 
British Food Journal. 123 (13), 73-87. 
Porter, M.E., Kramer, M.R. (2011) Creating shared value. Harvard Business Review. 89, 62-77. 
Rawls, J. (1971) A theory of justice. Cambridge, Belknap press. 
Schlosberg, D., (2007) Defining environmental justice: Theories, movements, and nature. Oxford, Oxford 
University Press. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
74 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Tribaldos, T. & Kortetmäki, T. (2022) Just transition in food systems: A framework of principles and criteria. 
Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions. (forthcoming) 
Williams, S., & Doyon, A. (2019) Justice in energy transitions. Environmental Innovation and Societal 
Transitions. 31, 144–153. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
75 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Green Collaborative Business Model 
Innovation in Symbiosis Business 
Value Networks 
 
Emma Ek1,3,*, Mirielle Torgersen1,2, Peter Lindgren1 
1Department of Business Development and Technology, Aarhus BSS - 
Aarhus University, Herning, Denmark; 2Department of Economics, 
Innovation and Society, Østfold University College, Fredrikstad, 
Norway 3Department of Business Development and Centre of 
Symbiosis, Sotenäs Municipality, Kungshamn, Sweden  
*Emma.ek@btech.au.dk  
Extended abstract 
Abstract 
Symbiosis Business Value Networks (SBVN) is one archetype out of many Collaborative Business 
Model (CBM) constellations where different businesses collaborate with their Business Model (BM) 
in Value Networks (VN). SBVNs are potentially one of the most promising CBMs in relation to green 
transformation and Green Business Model Innovation (GBMI). In this transition of the economy, 
society and network to be greener and circular, businesses are confronting challenges regarding 
how to construct VN with new types of operation, effectiveness, and openness practice that value 
all business network partners. The research is based on a combination of a literature study and a 
case study conducted within two different existing SBVNs. The paper contributes to the literature 
on CBM in the context of SBVN, with the following research questions:   
How have and can SBVN be defined? 
Within which parameters is it more/less successful than other CBMs? 
When are the results better of a SBVN than other archetypes of CBMs? 
 
Introduction 
Businesses are heavily investing these days in new ways to become greener, more sustainable and 
to meet the increasing request and goals for circular economy and GBM´s – green transition. 
Businesses - in this context - define and operate their GBM and GBMI in many ways (Lindgren 2021). 
Considering the role of businesses in the transition is to explore the potential for BMs and VNs to 
act as an enabler of or an obstacle to change. It is shown that this individual “single-business ” or 
“stand-alone” approach leads to green and circular improvements but tends to result in measures 
that are optimized in the best interests of the single individual business (Håkonson 1989), and do 
not consistently capture the potential of the VN at system level. Hereby enormous GBMI potentials 
are lost both in the BM network and to the society. Therefore, more and more focus to GBM and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
76 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
GBMI are changed from single business activities to VNs at open system level. Here, BMs as complex 
systems interdependent with other businesses, BMs and stakeholders, interrelated with socio-
technical transitions (Aargaard 2021), and GBMI can serve to yield sustainable impacts and 
transform practices without significant technological innovation (Sarasini and Linder 2018). 
A prerequisite for realizing holistic solutions is to achieve synergies in symbiotic CBMs, a strategy 
where different actors and businesses collaborate to gain competitive advantages for all parts being 
involved in the network (Chertow 2000), boost GBMI and increase business’ resource efficiencies 
and competences (Ghali et al. 2017; Afshari et al. 2018; Wolf and Petersson 2007; Sun et al. 2017). 
Moreover, collaborative ‘VN´ refers to a group of three or more businesses, connected in ways that 
facilitate the achievement of a common goal (Provan and Kenis 2007). SBVN are thus based on CBM 
to support ecosystems for sustainability. The effects and value related impacts of applying SBVN´s 
seems to be higher than classical green, sustainable, and circular BMs in stand-alone (Camarinha-
Matos  and  Afsarmanes 2004; de Man and Luvison 2019).  
Nevertheless, BMI has been acknowledged to be an important enabler of the transition to a circular 
economy (Linder & Williander, 2015), and it seems as SBVNs could attain even higher results of 
green and circular transformation as they still have some challenges to measure, calculate and 
monitor the GBM and GBMI in the terms of monetary and nonmonetary values. It seems like SBVNs 
could gain more advanced GBMI based on more advanced secure technology. This is highly needed 
in a future more digitalized and virtual world (Lindgren 2017). Fundamentally strong, new and open 
VN constructions are needed, and trust and openness seem core to make these SBVN grow (Ristola 
and Mirata 2007). 
This work is necessary to create clearness and reduce investment risks and transformational 
mistakes in collaborative SBVN. The research partly compiles issues that have emerged along the 
way by transition projects of creation of CBM. Meanwhile, the technology and digital transition are 
pushing the society and businesses into a transition itself, and can aside from activities to 
strengthen the social dimension including e.g. collaboration, relationships, openness, culture and 
trust, which have shown to be certain challenges (e.g. Boons et al. 2011; Lombardi and Laybourn 
2012; Mirata and Emtairah 2005), contribute in the transition where businesses operate. This paper 
introduces and link the possibilities and previous research to on-going transition activities for SBVN. 
This, to strength the CBMs and increase values of the transition of the society and economy. So far, 
research shows great potentials for SBVN, but the question remains how the research can support 
CBM further and GBMI in symbiosis value networks.  
The overall contribution of this paper is to strengthen the literature on CBM in the context of the 
strategy industrial symbiosis and SBVN. The findings show further how SBVN operates technically 
and BM wise and how SBVNs can improve GBMI – taking GBMI to the next level. Also, how 
businesses and societies can achieve improved green and sustainable transition related to the 
requests set by society, businesses, and other stakeholders. 
 
Methodology 
A literature study was conducted on SBVN to define the strategy in the concept of CBM. 
Two SBVN cases was studied in the first stage, i) Sotenäs Symbiosis in Sweden ii) Greenlab Skive 
Symbiosis Network in Denmark. The research of the cases will contribute with a business 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
77 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
perspective on which parameters is it more and less successful to be a part of a SBVN than other 
CBM archetypes and “stand alone”. This for enable sustainable, circular, and green transition - 
based on an open system perspective. The case study illustrates benefits, values, challenges, 
necessary inputs and outputs that emerge by transition and creation of SBVNs.  
 
Symbiosis Business Value Networks 
The following cases were elected as examples of on-going transition projects of SBVN and stand-
alone GBM developers, related to CBM, further which challenges will be compared with the 
opportunities and possibilities of future wireless technologies. The names of the businesses are 
kept anonymous due to confidentially issues.  
 
A. Sotenäs Symbiosis Network 
Sotenäs Symbiosis Network (SSN) (Sotenäs Symbioscentrum, 2021) is a SBVN in Sotenäs 
municipality in Sweden, figure 1. SSN involves exchange of materials, energy, and knowledge 
among diverse actors to create a Symbiosis Ecosystem Network.  
 
 
Fig. 1. Sotenäs Symbiosis Network 
 
B. Greenlab Skive  
Greenlab Skive (GS) Symbiosis Network, in Skive Denmark (Greenlab Skive, 2022) is one of the 
world's first truly green industrial symbiotic business park, figure 2. GS generate renewable energy, 
supply it to the businesses located in the nearby area, and store energy in different forms to match 
the market demand. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
78 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Fig. 2. Greenlab Skive  
 
Preliminary results 
The case study of the two SBVNs shows how different actors can interact and collaborate to gain 
competitive advantage, improve innovation, and develop GBMI in the aim of increasing the 
businesses productivity and efficiency. The on-going GBM transition studies both show successful 
results, but that could also be strengthen and further developed.  
 
Conclusion  
The literature review indicates that there are different ways of defining SBVN and that included 
dimensions in the definition have changed over time. However, there is a lack of contributions of 
analysing the approach in the context of GBMI, in relation to on-going activities.  
The case study illustrates benefits, values, challenges, necessary inputs, and outputs of business 
that emerge by developing SBVNs.  
Keywords  
Symbiosis Business Value Networks, Green Business Model Innovation, Collaborative Business 
Model, Value Networks, Industrial Symbiosis 
 
References 
Aagaard, A., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Wells, P. (Eds.) (2021). Business Models for Sustainability Transitions – How 
Organisations Contribute to Societal Transformation. Palgrave Macmillan. 
Afshari, H., Jaber, M. Y. och Searcy, C. (2018) Extending industrial symbiosis to residential buildings: A 
mathematical model and case study, Journal of Cleaner Production, 183, s. 370–379.  
Boons, F., Spekkink, W. and Mouzakitis, Y. (2011) The dynamics of industrial symbiosis: a proposal for a 
conceptual framework based upon a comprehensive literature review, Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 19(9), s. 905–911. 
Boons F, Lüdeke-Freund F. (2013). Business models for sustainable innovation: state-of-the-art and steps 
towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production 45: 9– 19. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
79 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Camarinha-Matos L. M.  and Afsarmanesh H. (2004). “Collaborative networked organizations,” A Res. agenda 
Emerg. Bus. Model. 
Chertow M.R. Industrial symbiosis: literature and taxonomy, 2000. Annu. Rev. Energy Environ., 25, pp. 313-
337, 10.1146/annurev.energy.25.1.313. 
De Man A.P. and Luvison D, “Collaborative business models: Aligning and operationalizing alliances”, 2019. 
Business Horizons, Volume 62, Issue 4, Pages 473-482, ISSN 0007-6813. 
Ghali, M. R., Frayret, J.-M. och Ahabchane, C. (2017) Agent-based model of self-organized industrial 
symbiosis, Journal of Cleaner Production, 161, s. 452–465.  
Greenlab Skive  https://www.greenlab.dk/, [Accessed: 18th January 2022]. 
Hagman, L., Feiz, R. (2021). Advancing the circular economy through organic by-product valorisation: a multi-
criteria assessment of a wheat-based biorefinery. Waste biomass valorization.  
Håkonson, Håkan and Ivan Snehota (1989) No business is an island: The network concept of business strategy 
Scandinavian Journal of Management Volume 5, Issue 3, 1989, Pages 187-200.  
Linder, Marcus and Williander, Mats. (2015). Circular Business Model Innovation: Inherent Uncertainties. 
Business Strategy and the Environment. 10.1002/bse.1906.  
Lindgren, P. (2017). Advanced Business Model Innovation. Wireless Personal Communications. 95. 
Lindgren, P et all (2021) "Green Multi Business Models" How to Measure Green Business Models and Green 
Business Model Innovation? Journal of Personal Wireless Communication Springer Article.  
Lombardi, D. R. och Laybourn, P. (2012) Redefining Industrial Symbiosis: Crossing Academic-Practitioner 
Boundaries, Journal of Industrial Ecology, 16(1), s. 28–37.  
Massa, L. & Tucci, C., (2021). Innovation and Business Models Oxford Encyclopaedia of Business and 
Management. Oxford University Press, Oxford Encyclopaedia of Business and Management.  
Mirata, M. and Emtairah, T. (2005), Industrial symbiosis networks and the contribution to environmental 
innovation: The case of the Landskrona industrial symbiosis programme Journal of Cleaner 
Production Volume 13, Issues 10–11, August–September 2005, Pages 993-1002.  
Pieroni, Marina P.P., Tim C. McAloone, Daniela C.A. Pigosso (2017) Comparison of scopes of CE-oriented and 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation approaches. Technical University of Denmark 
(DTU), Department of Mechanical Engineering, Nils Koppels Alle 404 / Room 229, DK- 2800 Kgs, 
Lyngby, Denmark. 
Provan K.G. and Kenis P. (2007). Modes of network governance: structure, management, and 
effectiveness. Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory 18(2): 229– 252.  
Ristola, P. & Mirata, M. (2007). Industrial Symbiosis for more sustainable, localised industrial systems. 
Progress in Industrial Ecology, An International Journal. 4. 
Sarasini, S., & Linder, M. (2018). Integrating a business model perspective into transition theory: The example 
of new mobility services. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, 27, 16-31.  
Sun, L., Li, H., Dong, L., Fang, K., Ren, J., Geng, Y., Fuilii, M., Zhang, W., Zhang, N. and Liu, Z. (2017) Eco-benefits 
assessment on urban industrial symbiosis based on material flows analysis and emergy evaluation 
approach: A case of Liuzhou city, China, Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 119.  
Sotenäs 
Symbioscentrum 
(2021) 
Årsberättelse 
2020. 
http://www.symbioscentrum.se 
/download/18.401edc031795d7e3fae66259/1621337128461/A%CC%8Arsbera%CC%88ttelse%20S
ymbioscentrum%202020.pdf [Accessed 18th January 2022]. 
Wolf, A. och Petersson, K. (2007) Industrial symbiosis in the Swedish forest industry, Progress in Industrial 
Ecology, 4(5), s. 348–362. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
80 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Future-oriented collaborative 
business models to support the 
sustainability transition  
Actor relations as a starting point for the creation of a 
transition framework  
Annukka Näyhä1,2* 
1 Jyväskylä University School of Business and Economics; 2 School of 
Resource Wisdom, University of Jyväskylä 
*annukka.nayha@jyu.fi 
Extended abstract 
1 Introduction 
1.1 Collaborative business models and foresight as enablers of sustainable 
transition 
In the sustainability transition, firms and their business models have an essential role (Loorbach 
and Wijsman, 2013; Schaltegger et al., 2016; Baumgartner and Rauter, 2017; Bidmon and Knab, 
2018). However, the current sustainability challenges in society cannot be met with the prevailing 
organization-centric business models which focus on economic value creation for firms (Jonker and 
Faber, 2019).  Instead, new, collaborative business models should be based on the shared values of 
different actors, such as companies and citizens. They enable value creation between and for 
involved stakeholders, bringing also social and environmental benefits along with economic value. 
Yet no concrete approaches exist for developing collaborative business models for transition, nor 
has the issue received sufficient attention in the current research (Jonker et al., 2020).  
The sustainability transition requires the exploration of alternative futures. The aim of foresight 
studies is to create an increased understanding about various future opportunities, enabling 
preparing for the future (Bell, 1997). The creation of firm business strategies and models are 
connected with strategic foresight because the strategies are formulated based on the analysis of 
change drivers (Vecchiato and Roveda, 2010).  Yet the relationship between sustainable 
development and foresight is often given little attention (Destatette, 2010), as are the foresight 
approaches in company management. Like collaborative business models, participative foresight 
models with stakeholder involvement can also facilitate mutual understanding and shared value 
creation between different actors (Robinson et al., 2011; Näyhä, 2021). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
81 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Overall, the sustainability transition cannot happen without different societal actors and levels of 
society working in alignment. The multi-level perspective (MLP) is a framework for analyzing 
transitions within and between different levels of society: niches (protected spaces for 
innovations), socio-technical regimes (dominating, stable structures in societal systems) and socio-
technical landscapes (wide-scale, exogenous environment). Transitions call for emerging niche-
level innovations, landscape-level changes which create pressure on the regime, and the 
unsteadiness of regimes. This in turn create opportunities to niche innovations (Geels and Schot, 
2007; Köhler et al., 2019). From the perspective of societal transition, individual firms –as niche 
actors – have challenges in advancing changes in the business environment. Firms’ collaborative 
business models and stakeholder dialogue could facilitate change by helping new ideas to penetrate 
through different societal levels. In other words, collaborative value creation is an important driver 
for societal transition (see also Jonker et al., 2020).  
1.2 The project and its starting point for developing a transition framework 
This study is part of a research project funded the Academy of Finland: “Future-oriented 
collaborative business models as a remedy for the sustainability transition: Finnish forest-based 
sector as an empirical arena for the creation of a transition framework”. The project’s main goal is 
to develop a transition framework based on future-oriented collaborative business models, which 
can be utilized by firms in their strategic management and in the stakeholder dialogue but also by 
a variety of other actors.  As a whole, the project builds on three theoretical premises – business, 
foresight and transition – and applies them to the Finnish forest-based sector (FBS) and its 
stakeholders as an experimental arena. The project explores elements of collaborative business 
models and participatory foresight, and their joint contribution to macro-level societal transition.  
The chosen sector was seen as ideal for this study for several reasons. The current sustainability 
challenges have not only created strong demands to renew their traditional business models in the 
FBS, which are based on the intensive use of wood, but also opened up space for new businesses 
(Näyhä 2019; 2020, 2021; Kunttu et al., 2020). Along with the call for more efficient environmental 
management, requirements for more transparent dialogue on these issues with stakeholders have 
also increased. From the stakeholders’ perspective, getting comparable information and 
understanding the ongoing transition is often challenging. This has led to polarization within the 
societal discourse about forests, and commonly accepted future goals for the utilization of forests 
cannot often be found (Mustalahti, 2018; Näyhä, 2019, 2020). 
In addition to revealing key conceptual and theoretical approaches for an overarching view of the 
project elements, this proposed paper for NBM 2022 aims at presenting the outcomes of the first 
phase of the project. This first phase explores the key actors in Finnish society and the societal 
discussion on forests and their sustainable utilization, forest-based businesses and related future 
views. More specifically, it aims to clarify the actors’ discourses, relations, positions and power 
dynamics. 
2 Data and methods 
Societal actors and their connections are identified through the textual analysis of policy documents 
(Halonen et al. 2022), media sources and grey literature. By including diverse sources in the analysis, 
a thorough understanding on the views of the actors can be perceived. The core of the data is 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
82 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
formed by newspaper articles collected from the Finnish newspapers Helsingin Sanomat and 
Maaseudun Tulevaisuus, both of which have nationwide distribution, for a total of around 300 
items. The search terms were “wood” and “forest” and their additions. The studied period is from 
2019 to 2021. ATLAS.ti used to examine the data. 
The analysis leans on the principle of critically viewing organic processes and discussions of the 
different actors in society, while aiming to reflect on the phenomena observed in the certain 
frames, thus its basis is in critical discourse analysis (Fairglough, 2001) and frame analysis (Goffman, 
1974). The analysis framework created for this study combines elements from multi-actor 
perspective (Avelino and Wittmayer, 2016), social network analysis (Scott, 2000) and strategic 
action fields (Fligstein and Adam, 2011). Power is one of the common nominators in these applied 
analytical frameworks. Therefore, power and its manifestations in actors’ statements and relations 
was a central part of the analysis.  At the end, the outcomes will be structured and the recognized 
actors will be positioned in the different societal levels by means of the MLP.  
The analysis is currently ongoing. The key outcomes of the analysis will give an overarching 
understanding of the organizing societal system in which FBS actors and their stakeholders are 
embedded.  Without understanding actors and their connections, research on more elaborate 
elements for the transition framework is not possible. In other words, collaborative business 
models cannot be explored and developed in the next phase of the study without identifying the 
key actors and understanding their relations and power dynamics. 
3 Upcoming results and discussion 
As stated, the media analysis is currently ongoing. Therefore, the findings of the media analysis 
revealing the key actors and their relations and power dynamics will be presented at the 
conference. In addition to these outcomes from the first phase of the project, I will shed light on 
the approach and its theoretical premises to build a transition framework in its entirety during the 
project. Overall, the scarcity of studies from a combined perspective on collaborative business 
models, corporate foresight and the transition enables a framework that can benefit academia, 
practitioners and a range of stakeholders. 
In terms of the NBM conference, this study contributes to all the conference themes since as a 
whole it explores different societal levels and actors, collaborative business models and their role 
in the sustainability transition (track 1.1.) while integrating different conceptual and theoretical 
approaches (track 3.1). The author wishes to have a presentation in track 1.1 because the track is 
centered around collaborative business models 
Keywords  
collaborative business models, foresight, forest-based sector, transition framework, actor dynamics 
References  
Avelino, F., Wittmayer, J. M. 2016. Shifting power relations in sustainability transitions: a   multi-actor 
perspective. J. Environ. 18:628–649. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
83 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Baumgartner, J., Rauter, R., 2017. Strategic perspectives of corporate sustainability management to develop 
a sustainable organization. J. Clean. Prod. 140:81–92. 
Bell, W.  2003, Foundations of Futures Studies. Volume 1. History, Purposes and Knowledge. Transaction 
Publishers, 365p. 
Bidmon, C.M., Knab, S. F. 2018. The three roles of business models in societal transitions: New linkages 
between business model and transition research. J. Clean. Prod. 178:9003–916. 
Destatte, P. 2010. Foresight: A major tool in tackling sustainable development. Technol Forecast Soc Change, 
77:1575–1587. 
Fligstein, N. and McAdam, D. 2011. Toward a General Theory of Strategic Action Field. Sociological Theory, 
29: 1-26. 
Geels, FW., Schot, J., 2007. Typology of sociotechnical transition pathways. Res. Policy 3:399-417. 
Jonker, J., Faber, N., 2019. Business Models for Multiple Value Creation: Exploring Strategic Changes in 
Organisations Enabling to Address Societal Challenges Sustainable business models. Innovation, 
Implementation and Success. (Eds) Aagaard. A.  
Jonker, J., Berkers, F., Derks, M., Montenegro Navarro, N., Wieclawska, S., Speijer, F., 2020. Collaborative 
Business Models 4 Transition. TNO report. https://repository.tudelft.nl/view/tno/uuid:7361e81d-
ad35-4ed2-affb-a6baff36de24 
Köhler, J., Geels, F. W., Kern, F., Markard, J., Wieczorek, A. et al. 2019. An agenda for sustainability transitions 
research: State of the art and future directions. Environ. Innov. 31:1–32. 
Kunttu, J., Hurmekoski, E.  Heräjärvi, H., Hujala, T., Leskinen, P., 2020. Preferable utilisation patterns of wood 
product industries’ by-products in Finland, Forest Policy Econ. 110. 
Loorbach, D.; Wisjman, K., 2013. Business transition management: exploring a new role for business in 
sustainability transitions. J. Clean. Prod, 45:20-28. 
Mustalahti, I., 2018. The responsive bioeconomy: The need for inclusion of citizens and environmental 
capability in the forest based bioeconomy. J. Clean. Prod. 172:3782–3786. 
Näyhä, A. 2021. Backcasting for desirabe futures in Finnish forest-based firms. Foresight 23: 50-72. 
Näyhä, A. 2020. Finnish forest-based companies in transition to the circular bioeconomy: Drivers, 
organizational resources and innovations. Forest Policy Econ, 110:1–14. 
Näyhä, A. 2019. Transition in the Finnish forest-based sector: Company perspectives on the bioeconomy, 
circular economy and sustainability. J. Clean. Prod. 209:1294–1306. 
Robinson, J., Burch, S., Talwar, S., O’Shea, M., Walsh, M. 2011. Envisioning sustainability: Recent progress in 
the use of participatory backcasting approaches for sustainability research. Technol Forecast Soc 
Change, 78:756–768. 
Scott, J., 2000. Social Network Analysis: A Handbook, second ed. Sage, London. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G., Lüdeke-Freund, F. 2016. Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, Present 
Research and Future Avenues. Organization & Environment, 29:3–10. 
Vecchiato, R., Roveda, C. 2010. Strategic foresight in corporate organizations: Handling the effect and 
response uncertainty of technology and social drivers of change. Technol Forecast Soc Change, 
77:1527–1539.  
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
84 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
The effect of decision support tools 
on Collaborative Business Models to 
enable sustainability transitions  
The case of Rotterdam Port 
Yasin Sagdur1, Dimitrios Xevgenos2,* 
1Water & Energy Intelligence, The Netherlands; 2Delft 
University of Technology, The Netherlands 
*d.xevgenos@tudelft.nl   
Extended abstract 
Introduction 
Policymakers, businesses, and scholars widely agree that the circular economy is a promising 
sustainable alternative to the current linear economy (Geissdoerfer et al., 2018). After conducting 
extensive case studies, Pessot et al. (2019) find that one of the most important business models in 
creating a collaborative network is the recycling, re-use, and sustainability (RR&S) model. RR&S is 
defined as a system where “resource input and waste, emission, and energy leakage are reduced 
by slowing, closing, and narrowing material and energy loops” (Pessot et al., p. 333). 
A prominent location in the Netherlands where this new business model could occur is in the 
petrochemical cluster in the Port of Rotterdam. The Dutch Government and the European Green 
Deal set policy targets for a CO2-neutral future world. The Dutch petrochemical industry is currently 
responsible for 20-30% of all CO2 emissions in the Netherlands, and a large part of this industry is 
in the Port of Rotterdam. Therefore, these policy targets put a lot of pressure on this industrial 
sector to transition towards a more sustainable future. Core to this transition is the investment 
decisions these companies need to make and the potential change in the business model these 
investment decisions cause.   
Making these investment decisions is difficult for these industrial players for two reasons. The first 
is the changing relationship between petrochemical players. Most industrial clusters consist of “a 
geographically proximate group of interconnected companies […] in a particular field, linked by 
externalities of various types” (Porter, 2010). This structure means that these actors are usually 
physically interdependent to run their business. With this physical interconnectedness, we mean 
that the input that goes into company B is often created by company A linked to this company 
through infrastructure. Both companies accept this dependence because the cost of moving the 
products from neighboring companies is far cheaper than importing them externally. Even though 
this is the case, most business models are organization-centric, focused on being a single 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
85 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
organization that creates its financial value (Jonker et al., 2020). However, the energy transition 
puts pressure on these companies to reduce their CO2 emissions. In practice, this means exchanging 
waste in the form of circularity or making decarbonization choices of the same category so the 
infrastructure can be prepared accordingly. Thus, the transition often requires collaboration with 
other companies in a cluster setting to become circular. These companies need to transition from 
an organization-centric business model to a collaborative business model. These companies must 
collaborate within their value chain to create from a collective perspective and allocate the 
necessary resources (Kais and Islam, 2016). However, transitioning to this new business model is 
challenging as these business models require a significant build of trust and collaboration among 
multiple stakeholders (Pessot et al., 2019). Moreover, it often requires a rethinking of the whole 
business logic of industrial stakeholders (Bocken, Rana and Short, 2015). 
The second reason that making investment decisions is challenging is that the investment risk of 
these companies is very high. This risk is attributed to the fact that these new assets have very high 
investment costs, calling for technically specialized processes in place and being characterized by 
long lead times before projects are realized (de Vries, 2007). Moreover, the degree of uncertainty 
in these clusters is very high (Cuppen et al., 2021). This deep uncertainty is caused by future prices, 
(international) competition, security of supply of energy, availability of infrastructure, and policy 
intervention. 
Purpose of this research 
Policy targets and the energy transition put a lot of pressure on industrial companies to transition 
from their current business model to a new/collaborative business model. However, in practice, 
transitioning to these new collaborative business models is difficult due to the changing relationship 
between petrochemical players and the high investment risk in this industry. Decision-support tools 
in the form of simulation models are a way for scholars to assist stakeholders in developing a new 
business model. This model helps them gain knowledge of the system they are operating in (Bas, 
2017; Cuppen et al. 2021). Moreover, testing new business models with stakeholders is essential 
for determining the viability of these novel structures (Bocken and Antikainen, 2018; Bocken, Boons 
and Baldassarrre, 2019; Weissbrod and Bocken; 2017). After conducting a literature review on 
agent-based models, Lange et al. 2017 concluded that no agent-based model had been utilized to 
test business model viability from the CBM perspective. After showcasing their model, they 
conclude that their method can be applied to all types of CBM in multiple industries. Moreover, 
they urge researchers to apply other/similar models in real-life systems. To this extent, we ask 
ourselves the following research question: How can implementing a state-of-the-art decision 
support tool influence the implementation of circular collaborative business models? 
To answer this research question, we develop a model that can provide transition pathways for the 
energy transition between now and 2050. In a later chapter, we compare our model to the existing 
models in this field. Also, we show why/how our model differs. We develop our model by applying 
a participatory modeling approach to a specific case study: the Chlorine Cluster in the Port of 
Rotterdam. One chlorine supplier company (Nobian) and three chlorine users (Westlake, Huntsman 
and Shin-Etsu) are within this case study. In a recently completed EU-funded project called ZERO 
BRINE (https://zerobrine.eu) this cluster was investigated (Xevgenos et al, 2019), while in a follow-
up project called WATER-MINING (Petrik et al, 2022) that was funded recently, Nobian and 
Westlake are collaborating to close the loop of the brine effluent (chlorine used stream) generated 
by Westlake epoxy plant in Pernis site, in Rotterdam Port (see also Figure 1, brine recycling stream 
illustrated with light blue). So currently, the brine is treated as waste, and after Westlake generates 
it, it is processed as such. However, by creating the blue link between Westlake and Nobian the 
brine is used as input again by Nobian. Instead of Nobian having to produce this brine at the plant 
site in Delfzijl. According to Xevgenos (2022), this will reduce water consumption by one-third and 
save 25 MWh of thermal energy and six kilotons of CO2 for full-scale implementation.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
86 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 1: Circularity within the chlorine cluster, Rotterdam Port 
Methodology 
Within our research, we use a design science approach as shown by (Hevner, 2004). Within design 
science, two core elements influence each other: the context and the artifact. Artifacts are broadly 
defined as constructs, models, or methods. A context is often the object of study (Hevner, 2004). 
Figure 2 shows how our framework for the design science approach looks. We base our approach 
on the work of Wieringa (2014) and Xevgenos (2021). 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Overview of the design science approach in our research 
Preliminary results and discussions 
Our first results are derived from the background study (phase 1) we conducted on the existing 
tools available for the actors in the chlorine cluster to assist them in making investment decisions. 
We see that these tools are lacking in three key areas. First, most models utilized by businesses 
themselves (outside of the scientific realm) that are utilized to simulate investment decisions are 
based on cash flow and thus ignore the physical flow of molecules, which is key to getting 
fundamental insights into how the system operates. On the other side, inhouse models that include 
physical flows are highly detailed and thus do not provide insights into the cash flow or are 
computationally feasible. A prominent methodology utilized in these models is based on Aspen 
(Haydary, 2019). Second, in most models, investment decisions are exogenous decisions that arise 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
87 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
from the cash-flow analysis; this methodology asks for time series as input for possible investment 
decisions to be made in the future, as shown in (Cuppen et al., 2021). Third, in industrial clusters, 
there are models that also endogenously model investment decisions; however, these models 
optimize these investment decisions (Boix et al., 2015). They do not account for myopic investors 
that base their investment decisions on limited information. Moreover, these optimization models 
are not suited to explore the impact of different business models. These models exist outside the 
industrial sector, mainly in energy, incorporating these elements, thus providing fruitful cross-
modeling avenues (Chappin et al., 2017). Lastly, most models are made to look at only a few 
scenarios or use historical trends. As the energy transition is going to change the system, historical 
data is not reliable; moreover, only looking at a few scenarios does not significantly increase the 
confidence in actors. Based on this we conclude that there is a gap in the current existing models 
utilized in this field (the knowledge context). Due to this reason, there is no decision-support tool 
(artefact) that is able to produce ‘realistic’ transition pathways. This in turn leads to a situation 
where the decision-support tool is not seen as reliable/valuable enough by stakeholders, to 
influence the implementation of circular business models. 
After this, we have identified, co-designed, and validated (phase 2,3,4) the artifact. We started this 
phase by interviewing over 15 stakeholders, where we focused on understanding their problems in 
the energy transition and presented our found dilemma regarding the decision support tool. Based 
on the interviews and our previous literature review, we saw that there was a need for a tool that 
could consider the following three elements: 1) model that can account for the physical flow in the 
chlorine cluster, 2) modeling the investment decisions made in the industrial cluster based on 
imperfect information and different business models and 3) simulate the model under deep 
uncertainty, account for thousands of equally likely futures (Bankes, Walker & Kwakkel, 2013). This 
will enable the realistic simulation of transition pathways for the energy transition in the chlorine 
cluster from the current year till 2050. Figure 3 shows a conceptual flow-chart on realizing this, and 
how this generates many transition pathways. It shows the logic of the investment choices where 
a specific investor calculates the profitability of all his investment options based on the 
configuration of a particular business model and uncertain external factors such as demand, price, 
policies, or previous investment choices of competitors. This is done for all actors until no more 
choices are left, and then a new year starts. Figure 3 shows how this generates pathways between 
2020 and 2050, where every node in the graph is an investment choice made. Our final goal is to 
communicate how a certain business model works in all the grey futures and in all the orange 
futures not. This overview will lead to a generic and systemic level of insight for the relevant 
stakeholders, through which we hope that actual change is realized. 
We are currently deep in phase 3 of figure 2 and are almost finished with the first version of our 
model and hope to display demos to the previously interviewed stakeholders soon after. Then, 
based on the stakeholders' feedback, we will develop a second, more defined version. 
Consequently, we will walk through phases 4, 5 and 6, which will enable us to answer our main 
research question. 
We hope that this decision support tool can showcase how, by elevating the main pain points in the 
field of modeling industrial clusters, one of the main problems for investments can be removed. 
This could lead to accelerating the energy transitions in industrial clusters. Moreover, it could 
showcase for other industries how quantitative studies can contribute to developing new business 
models if this is explicitly recognized in the quantitative models. 
Keywords  
Collaborative Business Models, Industrial Cluster Transition, Quantitative Simulation, Myopic 
Investment and Deep Uncertainty 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
88 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 2:  CONCEPTUAL FLOW-CHART (left) and  TRANSITION PATHWAYS ON THE RIGHT (ADJUSTED FROM (CUPPEN ET AL., 2021))

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
89 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Acknowledgement 
This project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and 
innovation programme under Grant Agreement No. 101037084 (IMPETUS). https://climate-
impetus.eu   
References  
Bankes, S.C., Walker, W.E. and Kwakkel, J.H., 2013. Exploratory modeling and analysis. Encyclopedia of operations 
research and management science, 532. 
Bas, G., 2017. Resilient Industrial Systems: A Complex System Perspective to Support Business Decisions. 
Bocken, N.M. and Antikainen, M., 2018, June. Circular business model experimentation: concept and approaches. 
In International conference on sustainable design and manufacturing (pp. 239-250). Springer, Cham. 
Bocken, N., Boons, F. and Baldassarre, B., 2019. Sustainable business model experimentation by understanding 
ecologies of business models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 208, pp.1498-1512. 
Bocken, N.M.P., Rana, P. and Short, S.W., 2015. Value mapping for sustainable business thinking. Journal of Industrial 
and Production Engineering, 32(1), pp.67-81. 
Boix, M., Montastruc, L., Azzaro-Pantel, C. and Domenech, S., 2015. Optimization methods applied to the design of 
eco-industrial parks: a literature review. Journal of Cleaner Production, 87, pp.303-317. 
Chappin, E.J., de Vries, L.J., Richstein, J.C., Bhagwat, P., Iychettira, K. and Khan, S., 2017. Simulating climate and 
energy policy with agent-based modelling: The Energy Modelling Laboratory (EMLab). Environmental 
modelling & software, 96, pp.421-431. 
Cuppen, E., Nikolic, I., Kwakkel, J. and Quist, J., 2021. Participatory multi-modelling as the creation of a boundary 
object ecology: the case of future energy infrastructures in the Rotterdam Port Industrial 
Cluster. Sustainability Science, 16(3), pp.901-918. 
De Vries, Laurens J. "Generation adequacy: Helping the market do its job." Utilities Policy 15, no. 1 (2007): 20-35. 
Demartini, M., Tonelli, F. and Bertani, F., 2018. Approaching industrial symbiosis through agent-based modeling and 
system dynamics. In Service orientation in holonic and multi-agent manufacturing (pp. 171-185). Springer, 
Cham. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Morioka, S.N., de Carvalho, M.M. and Evans, S., 2018. Business models and supply chains for the 
circular economy. Journal of cleaner production, 190, pp.712-721. 
Haydary, J., 2019. Chemical process design and simulation: Aspen Plus and Aspen Hysys applications. John Wiley & 
Sons. 
Hevner, A.R., March, S.T., Park, J. and Ram, S., 2004. Design science in information systems research. MIS quarterly, 
pp.75-105. 
Jonker, J., Berkers, F.T.H.M., Derks, M., Montenegro Navarro, N., Wieclawska, S., Speijer, F., Ploegman, K. and Engels, 
H., 2020. Collaborative business models for transition. TNO Report, pp.1-42. 
Kais, S.M. and Islam, M.S., 2016. Community capitals as community resilience to climate change: Conceptual 
connections. International journal of environmental research and public health, 13(12), p.1211. 
Lange, K.P., Korevaar, G., Oskam, I.F., Nikolic, I. and Herder, P.M., 2021. Agent-based modelling and simulation for 
circular business model experimentation. Resources, Conservation & Recycling Advances, 12, p.200055. 
Petrik, LF; Ngo, HH; Varjani, S; Osseweijer, P.; Xevgenos, D; van Loosdrecht, M; Smol, M; Yang, XJ; Mateo-Sagasta, J. 
(2022). 
From 
wastewater 
to 
resource, 
ONE 
EARTH, 
5(2), 
122-125. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oneear.2022.01.011. 
Pessot, E., Zangiacomi, A., Berkers, F., Hidalgo-Carvajal, D., Weerdmeester, R. and Fornasiero, R., 2019, September. 
Investigating supply chains models and enabling technologies towards collaborative networks. In Working 
Conference on Virtual Enterprises (pp. 335-343). Springer, Cham. 
Porter, Michael. "The economic performance of regions." Regional studies 37, no. 6-7 (2003): 549-578. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
90 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Raimbault, J., Broere, J., Somveille, M., Serna, J.M., Strombom, E., Moore, C., Zhu, B. and Sugar, L., 2020. A spatial 
agent based model for simulating and optimizing networked eco-industrial systems. Resources, 
Conservation and Recycling, 155, p.104538. 
Weissbrod, I. and Bocken, N.M., 2017. Developing sustainable business experimentation capability–A case 
study. Journal of Cleaner Production, 142, pp.2663-2676. 
Wieringa, R.J., 2014. Design science methodology for information systems and software engineering. Springer. 
Xevgenos, D., Mortou, M., Bakogianni, D., Skourtanioti, E. & M. Loizidou: Brine releases from process industries and 
desalination plants: the case of The Netherlands (2019). Poster presented in HERAKLION 2019 conference, 
26-29 June 2019, Crete island, Greece. 
Xevgenos, D.; Meca, S.; Panteleaki-Tourkodimitri, K.; van der Gaast, W.; Cano, M. (2021). Value Co-Creation Through 
Actors Engagement for The Implementation of Circular Economy Solutions in The Chemical Sector. New 
Business 
Models 
2021 
conference 
(NBM 
2021). 
Sweden. 
Available 
at: 
https://dataverse.nl/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.34894/NBQSAF 
Xevgenos (2022), Circularity demonstration project: from industrial wastewater to chlorine. Available at: 
https://dataverse.nl/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.34894/AM1K30  
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
91 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Towards a sustainable energy 
transition: Exploring collaborative 
business models in the wind industry 
 
Dorleta Ibarra1,* Joan Manuel F. Mendoza1,2  
1Mondragon Unibertsitatea, Faculty of Engineering, 
Mechanics and Industrial Production; 2IKERBASQUE, 
Basque Foundation for Science 
*dibarra@mondragon.edu 
 
Abstract 
The world is facing an energy transition to keep global temperature increase below to 1.5°C by 2050, 
where renewable energy technologies will play a key role. However, the deployment of renewable energy 
technologies through circular and sustainable business models is imperative to minimise resource 
consumption and negative impacts. The digital transformation, the increasing affordability of energy 
technologies, and the growing autonomy of energy consumers have led to the emergence of new 
collaborative business models (COBMs). COBMs can drive the decentralisation, democratisation and 
decarbonisation of the energy sector. However, research to date has been more focused on exploring 
COBMs for solar energy, with little attention on the role they can play to support sustainable wind 
electricity generation. Based on Mendoza et al. (2022), this short paper characterizes two COBMs 
(community-owned wind parks and aggregation platforms) with application to the wind industry. 
Mendoza et al. (2022), developed these COBMs based on a systematic literature review of 125 journal 
papers, business cases and industrial reports, by relying on business model categorization and 
characterisation approaches. The results show how COBMs can contribute to the sustainable 
transformation of the energy sector from an environmental (increased efficiency of wind farms), social 
(community engagement and transparency in decision-making) and economic (new employment and 
business opportunities) perspective. 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
92 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 1.2 - Ecosystems in Support of 
Sustainability 
Track chairs: Nikolay Dentchev and Abel Diaz 
Gonzalez (Vrije University of Brussels, VUB) 
 
Ecosystem thinking provides insights on how different stakeholders can be aligned, interact 
and collaborate to gain competitive advantage, boost innovation and increase business 
productivity. This session focuses the discussion on how to build supportive ecosystems for 
the new business models, including their new challenges in light of the pandemic.  
Papers from the different methodological background are welcome, including literature 
reviews, theoretical-, conceptual- and empirical papers. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
93 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Open Innovation as a Solution to 
Grand Challenges: The Case of the 
Open Insulin Project 
 
Ibrahim Aldulijan1*, Andrew Foley2, Arushi Singh3, Ria Jain4,  
Thorsten Schoormann5, Lisa Scheifele6, Mo Mansouri7,* 
1,7Stevens Institute of Technology, USA; 2Cornell University, Johnson 
Graduate School of Management, USA; 3University of Maryland, USA; 
4University of California, Los Angeles, USA; 5University of Hildesheim, 
Germany; 6Loyola University Maryland, USA 
*ialdulij@stevens.edu 
Abstract 
We present a novel business model applying the concept of open innovation to the production of 
open source insulin. The motivations for Open Insulin Foundation are the economic complexities 
surrounding insulin pricing, which renders it inaccessible to many of the neediest patients. 
Specifically, we are motivated by two issues: 1) insulin prices are higher than can be justified by the 
logic of necessity related to temporary monopolies, 2) industrial organization in the pharmaceutical 
industry is such that large players can drive up prices without corresponding welfare gains. Applying 
Chesbrough and Christensen’s seminal work, we propose an innovation, not to the production of 
insulin, but to the business model by which it generates value for both consumers and shareholders. 
Our business model is underpinned by the logic of stakeholder reductionism or the elimination of 
unnecessary intermediaries in the value-generation process. We believe that our organization - and 
a move to this model more generally - stands to rectify sub-Paretian equilibria resulting from the 
industrial organization of the pharmaceutical industry, thereby redistributing value from firms to 
consumers.  
Keywords  
Open Innovation, Business Model Innovation, Social Entrepreneurship, Ecosystem Emergence, 
Grand Challenges 
Introduction 
A particularly pressing grand challenge of today is the adequate distribution of healthcare solutions, 
especially for the chronically ill (Couture et al., 2021; Jarzabkowski, 2019). These challenges have 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
94 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
caused policymakers, managers, researchers, and theorists to derive new lenses through which to 
conceive of organizations (Jarzabkowksi, 2019). One particular way to address some of these needs 
is to import business models from one sector to another (Christensen, 2016). For instance, 
subscription-based businesses have often supplanted low-level attorneys, accountants, and 
economists in ways that render their services more accessible (Acemoglu & Autour, 2011; Autor et 
al., 2003; Christensen, 2009). Similarly, the introduction to the global communities of “platform” 
businesses allowed new stakeholders to enter businesses as diverse as movie production, in the 
case of Netflix, and hospitality, by way of AirBnb (Jacobides et al., 2018; Orlikowski & Scott, 2002; 
Wareham et al., 2014).  
In each of these aforementioned cases, industries were restructured with the goal of expanding the 
ability of consumers to access their products. Moreover, each of these shifts in business models 
involved importing a business model from the digital world to the material world (Orlikowski, 2000): 
platforms were initially popularized in multi-sided digital markets and brought to bear on real-
estate by way of AirBnb, for instance (Orlikowski & Scott, 2002). A similar shift has occurred 
regarding open innovation (Chesbrough, 2000; Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002): businesses that 
specialize in the production of material goods are beginning to allow for distributed ownership in 
the production and dissemination of their products throughout the value chain. Though the 
dynamics of this “translation” of open innovation to brick-and-mortar businesses is still being 
examined (e.g. Mason et al., 2019; Mollick, 2016; Assenova et al., 2016; Sorenson & Assenova, 
2016), we believe that this process is a powerful lens through which the observe the process by 
which organizations re-create themselves to address grand challenges (Davis & Marquis, 2005; 
Scott & Davis, 2015).  
In this paper, we present an initial theoretical model of the process by which this translation takes 
place. Therefore, the paper is structured as follows: as a first step, we review the literature on 
complementary dynamics and business ecosystems (e.g., Adner, 2017; Jacobides et al., 2018) as 
well as open innovation (e.g., Chesbrough, 2003; Chesbrough & Brogers, 2014; Chesbrough et al., 
2006) (Section 2). Then, for collecting empirical data, we report on a single case study (Eisenhardt, 
1989; Yin, 2015) of a small nonprofit organization that is attempting to disrupt the insulin industry 
through open source business models. We decided to rely on qualitative data from a case study as 
this allows us to get first-hand insights from a naturalistic environment in which a company actually 
strives for open source options in the insulin domain. This case study is relevant to the theoretical 
challenges of organizations developing new business models in the face of grand challenges 
because the issue of insulin distribution is non-trivial: more than 50% of those who require insulin 
cannot access it for various reasons (Cefalu et al, 2018). Thus, this is a societal problem that hitherto 
lacked an organizational solution but is presently being addressed through open innovation. 
Following the case study methodology, we then present a process model from observations of a 
young organization in the insulin industry. Thereby, we shed light on the organization’s ecosystem 
and stakeholders, business model, and expected advantages (Section 3). Afterward, we provide 
some reflections on the benefits and shortcomings that need to be taken into account when it 
comes down to open source business models for insulin and also the broader landscape of 
pharmacy (Section 4). Finally, we conclude with the study by discussing implications and future 
avenues (Section 5). Ultimately, from a domain viewpoint, we aim to respond to challenges in terms 
of access and availability of insulin. From a business perceptive, we aim to help inventors and 
entrepreneurs in their endeavors of following a social mission and contributing to sustainability 
goals (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018; Schoormann et al., 2021), which is important as particularly 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
95 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
health businesses tend to fail due to missing and clear value propositions and strategies for making 
a sustainable profit (Mettler and Eurich, 2012). 
Literature Review 
Complementary Dynamics in Business Ecosystems 
Business ecosystems are often defined as “the alignment structure of the multilateral set of 
partners that need to interact in order for a focal value proposition to materialize” (Adner, 2017: 
p. 40; Jacobides et al., 2018). In particular, this literature emphasizes the importance of 
complementary products and services. In this context, “complementary” is the economic quality 
such that, when we have products A and B, greater availability of product B raises the value of 
product A, and vice versa (Milgrom & Roberts, 1995). A common example of these dynamics comes 
from the canonical battle between Sony and Betamax (Anthony, 2008). In this case, the DVD was 
able to become the predominant mode of film recording and distribution because the installed base 
of DVD players was much higher than that of Betamax players at the time; thus, due to the greater 
complementarities afforded by another product (DVD players), DVDs were able to provide much 
greater value than was their rival, Betamax.  
This emphasis on complementary dynamics has led management scholars to study the impact of 
ecosystem dynamics on firms’ propensities for innovation (Kapoor & Lee, 2013) and survival (Adner 
& Kapoor, 2016). Of particular interest in this literature has been an understanding of the 
complementary products that are required for a firm to be successful, and how a focal firm may 
marshal their support for their products and services. For instance, Hannah & Eisenhardt (2020) 
study an emerging solar panel ecosystem in California. They find that a startup’s likelihood of 
success was a direct function not only of their ability to marshal the support of necessary 
complementors, but also of their ability to marshal the right support at the right time; this latter 
qualifier is particularly important, given that ecosystems are not static - the value they provide 
evolves over time, thereby necessitating shifts in the arrangements of firms and complementors. 
Though this literature has shed ample light on the myriad ways in which firms interact with their 
complementors to remain relevant in evolving ecosystems, it has tended to take a narrow view of 
what constitutes a complementor. In particular, the literature has tended only to look at 
complementarities in the production process (Adner, 2017; Iansiti & Levien, 2004; Jacobides et al., 
2018; McIntyre & Srinivasan, 2017). As an illustration, Adner (2017) studies the challenges faced by 
Michelin tires as the firm sought to release a new brand of tire that could be driven on while flat. A 
key challenge they faced was that of independent auto mechanics - a key complementor: none of 
them wanted to invest in the capabilities necessary to service this product, which created an 
ecosystem challenge for Michelin. Importantly, these mechanics were essentially co-producers of 
the tire’s value proposition: Michelin manufactured and distributed it, and the mechanics provided 
after-sales service. Similar instances have been explored in the case of solar panels (Hannah & 
Eisenhardt, 2020), software platforms (McIntyre & Srinivasan, 2017), and hardware tools (Mitchell 
& Singh, 1996).  
In this paper, however, we will argue that this narrow definition of what constitutes a 
complementor has led to an incomplete view of ecosystem dynamics, especially as they relate to 
grand challenges, such as healthcare (Couture et al., 2021; Jarzabkowski et al., 2019). In particular, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
96 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
we suggest that important ecosystem dynamics are present not just on the production side of 
products and services, but also on the consumption side. In many industries, the consumer and 
payer of a product are often different individuals, but the propensity of either to purchase a product 
will depend on that of the other. Hence, we argue that, in such cases, we will observe 
complementarities among these parties: more of consumption by one of the two parties (e.g. the 
payer) will result in more consumption by the other (the consumer), and visa versa (Milgrom & 
Roberts, 1995). We will outline the dynamics of this process in the context of the insulin industry. 
In this industry, however, there are at least five key stakeholders - each with complementary 
consumption habits – that must be satisfied before any of the others will consume. We will also 
argue that the Edgeworth complementarities previously outlined are operative here. Importantly, 
we will develop a theoretical framework that highlights how firms may engage in business model 
innovation (Christensen, 2009; Christensen et al., 2016) in the context of such strict ecosystem 
dynamics. We begin our exposition of this argument by discussing a trend toward open business 
models.  
Open Source Business Models and Grand Challenges 
Open source business models are those in which loosely coordinated individuals realize that they 
may draw on each other’s resources, capabilities, or other services to enhance the value 
propositions they offer (Chesbrough, 2003; Leone, Faraj, Mantere, 2021; Sandberg & Alvesson, 
2021). Such arrangements have allowed for the creation of products and services also product-
service systems that provide economic value for consumers at a greatly reduced cost, thereby 
increasing the ability of consumers to access them (Chesbrough, 2003; Chesbrough & Bogers, 2014). 
Perhaps even more importantly, however, open-source business models democratize the 
production process, inviting individuals to derive value from it who ordinarily could not. For 
instance, crowdfunding has been argued to represent an open form of risk capital; the benefits, in 
this case, are not only increased efficiency, by also the ability of common individuals (not just 
venture capitalists) to benefit from the value offered by investing in young firms (Fleming & 
Sorenson, 2016; Sorenson et al., 2016). These two effects - increased economic efficiency and 
democratization of the value capture process – have rendered “open” services much more 
accessible, thereby minimizing hitherto persistent market frictions. 
Given that open source business models have the benefit of drastically increasing access to a 
business’s products and services to their markets, we will argue that this paradigm stands to 
mitigate many of the grand challenges facing us today (Jarzabkowski et al., 2019). Davis & Scott 
(2005) have suggested that organizations are mankind’s most powerful tool for marshaling 
resources and aligning populations to action, suggesting that they have been at the root of many 
weals and woes of the 20th century. But, the role that organizations could have in solving grand 
challenges by “opening up” has not been systematically explored.  
A key grand challenge facing us today is access to relevant, affordable healthcare (Weeramanthri, 
2015). Many individuals – especially those in compromised conditions and/or plagued by chronic 
illnesses – struggle to find access to the healthcare they need, which thereby lowers their quality 
of life. A particular setting where this is observable is in the market for insulin. Given that the 
commercial market for insulin is dominated by an oligopoly of a few major players (Gallegos et al., 
2018 Knox, 2020), the organization of the industry is such that significant welfare losses are present 
because of producers’ ability to increase the prices of insulin without similarly increasing its quality 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
97 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
or accessibility (Bain, 1986; Porter, 1980). This has created a crisis among diabetic patients that has 
been difficult to resolve with public policy because such measures often move slowly and require 
extensive support across bipartisan stakeholders (Knox, 2020). 
In the balance of this paper, we will argue that an open source approach to insulin production and 
distribution can help to address the grand challenge of insulin access. In particular, we will argue 
that this process will broaden access to insulin by both driving down costs and minimizing 
“gatekeepers” in the production process. However, this process will not be without its frictions: as 
previously mentioned, healthcare is a sector in which powerful ecosystem dynamics (Adner, 2017; 
Jacobides et al., 2018) are present and in which complementarities (Milgrom & Roberts, 1995) 
create “chicken-or-the-egg” problems for firms (Roth, 2015). Hence, we outline an archival case 
study of a small firm in this space and detail the unique challenges that face firms attempting to 
“open” ones in the face of these pressures. We contribute to the innovation and strategy literature 
by suggesting that business model innovation, even when motivated by support across 
stakeholders (as open innovation is) can be stymied by ecosystem pressures; we also outline 
recommendations for firms undertaking such initiatives. 
Open Insulin Foundation 
Diabetes is a chronic condition that affects more than 30 million people in the United States. The 
condition is treated with insulin, a medicine developed in the 1920s, the price of which has 
skyrocketed to prices that are unaffordable to many (Cefalu et al, 2018, Knox, 2020). The Open 
Insulin Foundation (OIF) originally named the Open Insulin Project, began their work to develop a 
less expensive insulin product in 2015 at Counter Culture Labs, which is a community biology lab in 
Oakland, California. The Foundation was launched with a crowdfunding campaign that raised about 
$16,000. The Open Insulin Foundation is currently engineering microorganisms to produce long-
acting (glargine) and short-acting (lispro) insulin analogs using standard techniques in 
biotechnology. Their project includes work with both bacteria and yeast.  
Open Insulin Foundation intends, as its first deliverable, to provide an FDA-approved sterile insulin 
product (glargine or lispro) produced via appropriate GMP registered facilities and available 
through a predefined supply chain network at greatly reduced prices compared to currently 
approved insulin products. Insulin will be available in 10mL vial sizes for diabetic patients using 
indirect injection for the management of blood glucose levels. Longer-term goals will be to expand 
the network of manufacturing locations and distribution channels while maintaining the cost-
competitive nature of the insulin product. Our success with this model will lay the foundation to 
expand into other medicines.  
Ecosystem and Stakeholders 
Open Insulin is focused on creating a model for insulin production that centers sustainable, small-
scale manufacturing and open source alternatives for production. They are working on developing 
organizational structures for co-operative based production of medicine, taking inspiration from 
such precedents as frameworks for health insurance cooperatives, state-level frameworks for 
producing generic drugs and for cultivation of cannabis for medical use, and other state-level 
frameworks for activities heavily regulated at the federal level, such as California’s Direct Public 
Offering system for equity crowdfunding. The open source business model allows for a simplified 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
98 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
distribution process with fewer stakeholders. This efficient supply chain has a focus on the 5 P’s 
(patient, physician, provider, policymaker, payer) and the interrelations between these different 
groups are as follows: 
Patients – The type 1 diabetics and their families and caregivers are the primary stakeholders that 
will have a say in how the problem is solved. The solution should be tailored to the means by which 
it will be most beneficial to them (e.g. prices they can afford, accessible distribution sites, integrated 
plans). 
Physicians – The physicians want the best possible option that will increase the health of their 
patients. They have a say in how the problem is addressed because they are key sources of 
information by which they can recommend the insulin to their patients and give it a source of 
credibility. They are also important because they advocate for the use of state of the art insulins 
(glargine and lispro) in order to overcome current influence from pharmaceutical companies. The 
product will need to be endorsed by physicians in order to increase community trust for the product 
in comparison to current monopolies in the medical market.  
Professional Healthcare Administrators – Want a way to integrate the current insulin pricing 
strategy with current plans. Administrators still want to make revenue so they won’t endorse a 
product that patients are not willing to buy. They will no longer be used as key gatekeepers but 
rather will be informed of lower cost options separate from traditional health insurance integration 
plans. 
Policy Makers – Want to have more equitable laws for people of varying socioeconomic 
backgrounds. They are stakeholders as the problem involves helping disadvantaged patients. In 
order to ensure monopolization does not continue to occur, policies must be passed. Can impact 
current healthcare pricing policies. 
Payers – Are the ones that have to bear the burden of the problem as they have to be able to keep 
up with current insulin price increases. They want lower prices so that it is easier to afford the 
medicine that they need without having to compromise on other aspects of their lives. The direct 
payment method advocated by Open Insulin would be the most feasible to overcome the current 
market monopoly.  
Business Model  
As a non-profit organization, Open Insulin relies on raising money to continue operations and to 
manufacture cost-effective insulin options. There are several different streams by which Open 
Insulin can make money. One of the primary methods is through the use of donations from 
individual and group donors as well as scientific and small business grants. Partnerships with labs 
and other scientific institutions are another source of money and sales to non-insured patients and 
others that are financially challenged at the break-even cost. Sales from profit sales are made from 
a smaller portion of the incoming revenue streams. Donor funding and funds derived from diabetic 
philanthropic drives will fund the research and development phase under a single coordinated 
effort. The significant nonprofit potential exists after the product is delivered to the market, which 
can be used to drive insulin costs even lower.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
99 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Distinct Advantage 
The open source model is different from the industry standard because it focuses on making insulin 
accessible rather than purely profitable. Current standard models focus on making pharmaceutical 
companies the most revenue without regard to patient accessibility. Moreover, the current models 
prevent smaller companies from entering the insulin market with their dominating and exclusive 
tactics. However, the open insulin model provides a more supportive and adaptable model to 
change the insulin market composition into one that is more patient-driven and less profit-focused. 
With the commonly used freemium model, the company that developed the model has full control 
over its distribution leading to further monopolization of the medical market. The open source 
model allows the model to be developed and maintained by a community of independent scientists. 
This model provides value because it allows for the production of more cost-efficient insulin that 
patients from a wide range of socioeconomic levels can access. It also helps to overcome issues 
with patent evergreening by giving companies a structure to follow that isn’t monopolized by 
current industry members. By providing an open source model for insulin production, one of the 
major issues worldwide will have a more feasible solution and flexible model for other 
companies/organizations to adopt. The model allows for lower barriers to entry to the insulin 
market and provides a solution with a less complex and more effective supply chain to directly 
provide patients with their medication without middlemen rent-seeking. In addition, the model is 
to be sustainable and affordable. The model allows for the collaboration of non-profit research 
efforts under a single open source business model that will make the value chain more efficient as 
a whole, making the realization of modest profits possible while also alleviating crushingly high 
insulin prices. The value proposition, value capture, and lower costs will potentially also attract 
insurance providers to provide open-sourced insulin to their clients, thus providing access to a 
wider market segment. The introduction of this cheaper alternative into the market will 
theoretically drive pricing of other analogues downwards, thus readjusting market segmentation.  
Current Findings and Contributions 
Our current work with OIF has involved a qualitative case study (Eisenhardt, 1989; Eisenhardt & 
Graebner, 2007) and extensive field work (Yin, 2015). Due to LUMSA’s length restrictions, we do 
not detail all of our findings in their entirety; rather, we present a few key highlights. 
First, the desire to re-shape the business model came not from a desire to earn abnormal profits by 
eradicating market inefficiencies (Kirzner, 1997; Knight, 1921). Rather, the founder who founded 
the project was motivated to found the firm in order to address what they believed to be a grand 
challenge (Jarzabkowski, 2019); namely, the inability of needy individuals to access insulin. In this 
way, the case of OIF is a unique instance of business model innovation: being motivated by social 
needs, the evaluation criteria employed by both the team and its key stakeholders were often non-
financial. For example, while the team was evaluating potential profit formulae (Christensen, 2009), 
the focus of the conversation was not on costs and margins, but rather on access. In other words, 
OIF’s conversations about financial sustainability were anchored to the question of: “How do we 
provide the greatest amount of insulin to those who need it most?”, not “how can we achieve the 
highest margins possible?”.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
100 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
This approach to pricing, however, was not uniformly embraced by all of the key complementors 
(Adner, 2017; Jacobides et al., 2018) in OIF’s ecosystem. Like other firms in industries marked by 
intense ecosystem dynamics, OIF depends heavily on a few complementors to generate value for 
consumers: there are physicians who prescribe insulin, payers (insurance companies) who pay for 
the insulin, and distributors like pharmacies that stock the insulin and work with physicians to 
ensure that patients are aware of their options. The reason was that many of them saw a conflict 
between their own immediate interests and OIF’s broader social mission: supporting OIF often 
meant lower profit margins for payers and providers. And, given the pressures on payers (especially) 
to provide returns via quarterly earnings statements, the opportunity cost associated with OIF’s 
business. 
A second and related issue concerns the ecosystem emergence challenge (Adner & Kapoor, 2016). 
Namely, key complementors in OIF’s potential ecosystem were hesitant to accept OIF’s open source 
model because doing so would undermine their roles as the sole holders of key resources. For 
instance, physicians felt that their role as the unique source of expertise in the diagnosis and 
treatment of diabetes would be undermined by an open-ecosystem approach. Relatedly, physicians 
were wary of undertaking the learning required for them to truly understand the open source 
business model; without this learning, however, they would not feel comfortable with prescribing 
OIF’s products to patients. Thus, the ability of patients to purchase OIF insulin - and OIF to become 
sustainable - was stymied by these and related ecosystem pressures.  
Though these ecosystem emergence challenges are not new (e.g. Adner & Kapoor, 2016), they have 
tended to only be documented in the context of traditional, market-based innovation. For instance, 
Adner & Kapoor (2016) argue that a key challenge in the early days of the photolithography industry 
was that there was little incentive for incumbents in well-developed ecosystem to support an 
emerging innovation that may disrupt their current roles in the existing ecosystem. In this case, 
however, most ecosystem complementors desire the business model innovation because of social 
reasons: all of them tend to appreciate the challenge faced by those who need insulin but cannot 
obtain it. Hence, this emergence challenge is not merely one of economic incentives, but also of a 
conflict between economic and normative pressures (DiMaggio & Powell, 1984; Meyer & Rowan, 
1977).  
These preliminary findings suggest that, even when the threat posed by certain grand challenges 
may be accepted and appreciated, and even when ecosystem players express the desire for a new 
technological configuration, change can be stymied. In particular, our current case study highlights 
a key tension between the drive for open source business models (Chesbrough, 2003; Chesbrough 
& Bogers, 2014) on the one hand, and the entrenched interests of ecosystem complementors on 
the other (Adner, 2017; Jacobides et al., 2018). What these findings suggest is that, even though 
open source business models are often advanced as an approach to resolve societal tensions (e.g. 
Mollick, 2018; Sorenson et al., 2016), they may meet a unique set of challenges. Namely, businesses 
do not exist in isolation; rather, they exist in complex ecosystems in which complementary sources 
of value must be coordinated in order to generate a coherent value proposition for a customer 
(Adner, 2017). Open source business, by bypassing many of the current complementors within an 
ecosystem and advocating for a new constellation of roles and responsibilities within them, thus 
face particularly strong ecosystem emergence challenges (Adner & Kapoor, 2016). Hence, and 
despite the value that open source business models stand to add - especially in the face of grand 
challenges - they may flounder in settings where ecosystem dynamics are particularly salient. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
101 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Conclusion 
In this paper, we have outlined some of the preliminary findings involving a case study of a small 
nonprofit that is attempting to disrupt the insulin industry via an open source business model. 
Throughout, we have argued that despite the acknowledgment of open-source businesses as a 
valuable tool for overcoming grand challenges (Jarzabkowski et al., 2019; Mollick, 2015), moving to 
an open-source business model can be difficult; these difficulties will be exacerbated in contexts 
where high levels of complementarities between firms lead to tightly linked ecosystem dynamics 
(Adner, 2017; Jacobides et al., 2018). In particular, our case study of OIF suggests that even when 
grand challenges are acknowledged by ecosystem players and a shift towards open source 
distribution is accepted, this transition can be stymied by ecosystem emergence challenges (Adner 
& Kapoor, 2016).  
Our contributions to this literature are threefold. First, we highlight the potential challenges that 
may arise in a particular instance of business model innovation – open-source production. We argue 
that, even when there is a near-universal agreement of the societal challenge faced within an 
industry and a concomitant understanding of the value that open-source can provide, innovation 
may stall because of emergence challenges. Second, we highlight that these tensions may arise even 
when a strong ideological consensus exists among players within an industry. Finally, we highlight 
the ecosystem dynamics that arise on the demand side of the process – between physicians, payers, 
and patients. This contrasts with prior work, which has predominantly emphasized supply-side 
ecosystem effects.  
References 
Acemoglu, D., & Autor, D. (2011) Skills, tasks and technologies: Implications for employment and earnings. In: 
Handbook of labor economics. Elsevier, vol. 4, pp. 1043–1171. 
Adner, R. (2017) Ecosystem as structure: An actionable construct for strategy. Journal of management. 43(1), 
39-58. 
Adner, R., & Kapoor, R. (2016) Innovation ecosystems and the pace of substitution: Re‐examining technology 
S‐curves. Strategic management journal. 37(4), 625-648. 
Anthony, S. (2008) Sony: Winning the DVD battle but losing the innovation war. Innovation Insights. Harvard 
Business Review. Available from: https://hbr.org/2008/02/sony-winning-the-dvd-battle-bu. 
Assenova, V., Best, J., Cagney, M., Ellenoff, D., Karas, K., Moon, J., ... & Sorenson, O. (2016) The present and 
future of crowdfunding. California Management Review. 58(2), 125-135. 
Autor, D. H., Levy, F., & Murnane, R. J. (2003) The skill content of recent technological change: An empirical 
exploration. The Quarterly journal of economics. 118(4), 1279-1333. 
Bain, J. S. (1986) Structure versus conduct as indicators of market performance: The Chicago-school attempts 
revisited. Antitrust L. & Econ. Rev. 18, 17. 
Chesbrough, H., & Bogers, M. (2014) Explicating open innovation: Clarifying an emerging paradigm for 
understanding innovation. New Frontiers in Open Innovation. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
Chesbrough, H., Vanhaverbeke, W., & J. West (2006) Open innovation: Researching a new paradigm. Oxford: 
Oxford University Press on Demand. 
Christensen, C. M., & Johnson, M. W. (2009) What are Business Models, and how are They Built? Harvard 
Business 
School 
Module 
Note 
610-019. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=37729. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
102 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Christensen, C. M., Bartman, T., & Bever, D. V. (2016) The hard truth about business model innovation. MIT 
Sloan Management Review. Available from: https://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/the-hard-truth-
about-business-model-innovation/. 
Couture, F., Jarzabkowski, P., & Le, J. K. (2021) Assessing the Unintended Consequences of Legitimating 
Responses to Grand Challenges. In: Academy of Management Proceedings. Briarcliff Manor, NY, 
Academy of Management, vol. 2021, No. 1, p. 10117. 
DiMaggio, P. J., & Powell, W. W. (1983). The iron cage revisited: Institutional isomorphism and collective 
rationality in organizational fields. American sociological review. 147-160. 
Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989) Building theories from case study research. Academy of management review. 14(4), 
532-550. 
Eisenhardt, K. M., & Graebner, M. E. (2007) Theory building from cases: Opportunities and challenges. 
Academy of management journal. 50(1), 25-32. 
Fleming, L., & Sorenson, O. (2016) Financing by and for the Masses: An Introduction to the Special Issue on 
Crowdfunding. California Management Review. 58(2), 5-19. 
Hannah, D. P., & Eisenhardt, K. M. (2018) How firms navigate cooperation and competition in nascent 
ecosystems. Strategic Management Journal. 39(12), 3163-3192. 
Jarzabkowski, P., Bednarek, R., Chalkias, K., & Cacciatori, E. (2019) Exploring inter-organizational paradoxes: 
Methodological lessons from a study of a grand challenge. Strategic Organization. 17(1), 120-132. 
Kapoor, R., & Lee, J. M. (2013) Coordinating and competing in ecosystems: How organizational forms shape 
new technology investments. Strategic management journal. 34(3), 274-296. 
Kirzner, I. M. (1997) Entrepreneurial discovery and the competitive market process: An Austrian approach. 
Journal of economic Literature. 35(1), 60-85. 
Knight, F. H. (1921) Risk, uncertainty and profit. Houghton Mifflin, vol. 31. 
Knox, R. (2020) Insulin insulated: barriers to competition and affordability in the United States insulin market. 
Journal of Law and the Biosciences. 7(1), lsaa061. 
Leone, P. V., Mantere, S., & Faraj, S. (2021) Open theorizing in management and organization studies. 
Academy of Management Review. 46(4), 725-749. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L., & Breuer, H. (2018) The sustainable business model 
pattern taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model innovation. 
Sustainable Production and Consumption. 15, 145-162. 
Mason, C., Botelho, T., & Harrison, R. (2019) The changing nature of angel investing: some research 
implications. Venture Capital. 21(2-3), 177-194. 
McIntyre, D. P., & Srinivasan, A. (2017) Networks, platforms, and strategy: Emerging views and next steps. 
Strategic management journal. 38(1), 141-160. 
Meyer, J. W., & Rowan, B. (1977) Institutionalized organizations: Formal structure as myth and ceremony. 
American journal of sociology. 83(2), 340-363. 
Mettler, T. & Eurich M (2012) A “design-pattern”-based approach for analyzing e-health business models. 
Health policy & technology. 1(2), 77-85. 
Mitchell, W., & Singh, K. (1996) Survival of businesses using collaborative relationships to commercialize 
complex goods. Strategic management journal. 17(3), 169-195. 
Milgrom, P., & Roberts, J. (1995) Complementarities and fit strategy, structure, and organizational change in 
manufacturing. Journal of accounting and economics. 19(2-3), 179-208. 
Mollick, E. (2014) The dynamics of crowdfunding: An exploratory study. Journal of business venturing. 29(1), 
1-16. 
Porter, M. (1980) Corporate strategy. New York, New York. 
Roth, A. E. (2015) Who gets what--and why: the new economics of matchmaking and market design. Boston 
and New York, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. 
Sandberg, J., & Alvesson, M. (2021) Meanings of theory: Clarifying theory through typification. Journal of 
Management Studies. 58(2), 487-516. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
103 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Schoormann, T., Stadtländer, M., & Knackstedt, R. (2021) Designing business model development tools for 
sustainability—a design science study. Electronic markets. Forthcoming, 1-23. 
Scott, W. R., & Davis, G. F. (2015) Organizations and organizing: Rational, natural and open systems 
perspectives. London and New York, Routledge. 
Sorenson, O., Assenova, V., Li, G. C., Boada, J., & Fleming, L. (2016) Expand innovation finance via 
crowdfunding. Science. 354(6319), 1526-1528. 
Weeramanthri, T. S., & Bailie, R. S. (2015) Grand challenges in public health policy. Frontiers in Public Health. 
3, 29. 
Wareham, J., Fox, P. B., & Cano Giner, J. L. (2014) Technology ecosystem governance. Organization science. 
25(4), 1195-1215. 
Yin, R. K. (2015) Qualitative research from start to finish. New York and London, Guilford publications. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
104 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Social Entrepreneurship and the Use 
of Sustainable Business Models in 
Developing Countries and the Need 
for Coherent Intersectoral 
Collaboration: The Case of North 
Macedonia 
  
Stefan Chichevaliev1,*  
1Vrije Universiteit Brussel  
*scicevaliev@gmail.com 
Abstract 
In this paper, we explore the intersectoral collaboration for social entrepreneurship development - 
a grey area that lacks critical investigation. Social entrepreneurship is directly connected to 
sustainable business models, fostering partnerships and collaboration while alleviating and 
mitigating societal issues. Social enterprises are implementing sustainable business models in their 
operations on the market to achieve the economic and societal impact they are striving for. Social 
entrepreneurship has intersectoral influence, and consequently, intersectoral collaboration is one 
of the prerequisites for developing social entrepreneurship that alleviates and mitigates the already 
made adverse effects on the economy, society and environment. We portray the case of North 
Macedonia, a developing country, at the beginning of the social entrepreneurship and sustainable 
business models development through the experience and practice of four pioneering social 
enterprises. We investigate ‘To what extent collaboration across sectors contributes to social 
entrepreneurship and sustainable business model development?’. The evidence shows that 
coherent collaboration across sectors is vital for the development of SE. The evidence also shows 
that in North Macedonia currently, there is an incoherent system of support. The need for coherent 
moving forward across sectors and levels is highlighted as key to enable effective and efficient social 
enterprises to deliver on their objectives. 
Keywords  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
105 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Sustainable Business Models, Social Entrepreneurship, Intersectoral collaboration, North 
Macedonia, Development Factors 
 
Introduction 
Sustainable business models (SBM) are the future of socio-economic development (UN, 2014). The 
overzealous exploitation of natural resources to accomplish economic development and growth 
negatively impacted the natural environment and harmed society (OECD, 2011; IISD, 2021). It might 
seem that the short-term results were worth it; however, in the last decade, the world recognised 
that it is more costly if we devour natural resources without thinking of the long-term 
consequences. If we want to preserve the liveability of the planet, we must double global circularity 
from 8.6% to 17% (Circle Economy, 2021). What is also astounding is that 90% of the business 
leaders imply that the consumers will hold them accountable for their environmental impact, which 
is an increase of 12% compared to 2018 (Environmental Defence Fund, 2019). Economic growth is 
no longer achievable without coupling it with social value and lessening environmental impacts. 
The extensive economic, social and environmental issues that the world is faced with cannot be 
bridged if we work divided. That is why we need ethical and SBMs to foster partnerships 
collaboration and be more sensitive to the footprints they leave on the global environment. 
Nowadays, the companies that adopt SBMs are more likely to succeed (Lingardt et al., 2009), and 
business sustainability is the single most effective way to ensure longstanding success (Fedeli, 
2019). 
Social entrepreneurship (SE) is directly connected to the use of SBMs, fostering partnerships and 
collaboration while alleviating and mitigating societal issues. Social enterprises are implementing 
SBMs in their operations on the market to achieve the economic and societal impact they are 
striving for. SE has intersectoral influence and consequently, intersectoral collaboration is one of 
the prerequisites for developing SE that alleviates and mitigates the already made adverse effects 
on the economy, society and environment (EP, 2017). Intersectoral cooperation for SE development 
remains a grey area which lacks critical investigation. We are exploring an area that have huge 
impact in both academic and practical areas.  
In this paper, we seek to respond to the question ‘To what extent collaboration across sectors 
contributes to social entrepreneurship and sustainable business model development?’ - an 
explanatory and specific question focused mainly on the added value of support and partnership. 
We aim to contribute to the SBMs literature and practice by portraying a national case – the Case 
of North Macedonia.  
Intersectoral Collaboration for Social Entrepreneurship 
The subject of SBMs is a contemporary topic with continuous and increasing focus, especially for SE 
(Dentchev et al., 2018). SE directly connects to activities contributing to the economic, social and 
environmental system. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
106 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Waddock (1988) and later on Sagawa and Seagal (2000) described SE as a socially responsible 
practice of business undertakings engaged in cross-sectoral partnerships. Alvord et al. (2004) stated 
that SE is a catalyst for alleviating social problems and fostering transformation. For Thompson and 
Doherty (2006) “social enterprises-defined simply- are organisation seeking business solution to 
social problems” (p.362). The commonality in most definitions is ‘the practice of commercial 
activities to accomplish social mission’ (Boschee & McClury, 2003; Lasprogata & Cotten, 2003; Mort 
et al., 2003; Hibbert et al., 2005; Cho, 2006; Harding, 2004; Haugh, 2005; Hartigan, 2006; Thompson 
& Doherty, 2006; Tracey & Jarvis, 2007). Kuratko (2020) provides a more modern definition stating 
that SE “is a form of entrepreneurship that exhibits characteristics of non-profits, government, and 
businesses; it applies traditional (private-sector) entrepreneurship’s focus on innovation, risk-
taking, and large-scale transformation to social problem-solving. (p.459)”. Chichevaliev (2020) 
combines business, innovation and social mission by stating “social entrepreneurship should be 
understood as an innovative approach to societal issues, not just social, utilising business models 
and entrepreneurial activities to provide funds to invest into the attainment of social objectives, 
and provide transformative social change” (p.24).  
Reviewing these definitions, we can find indisputable evidence that SE is using SBMs including 
innovation to provide sustainable solutions that contribute to society’s transformation. In order to 
do achieve its purpose, SE need every sector to pitch in and do their part.  
Spear (2006) raises the matter of the significance of intersectoral cooperation for the development 
of the field. This area has gained increased recognition for SE. It is highlighted in the literature as 
an imperative to cooperate on a local and national level. Such collaborations and joint efforts create 
shared goals and values, which are particularly important (Finnis, 2011). Bosma (2005) states that 
maintaining a close partnership between organisations fuels synergy and mutual learning 
experiences. Pachura (2021) adds that “interorganizational cooperation and collaboration are 
based on combining the potentials of different organisations to achieve social goals, active and 
genuine commitment, as well as the creation, maintenance and taking advantage of lasting and 
continuous social relationships” (p.5). Dacin et al. (2011), state that SE research requires a more 
holistic view, seizing the transdisciplinary and multifaced nature of the field. 
What we have found in the literature is that many scholars research the institutional environment 
and the role of the institutions in the development of SE. However, they do not refer directly to 
intersectoral cooperation and to what extent such collaboration contributes to SE development. It 
can be concluded that it is a grey area that lacks critical investigation and addressing this issue from 
the institutional environment perspective seems justified, reasonable and relevant to the research 
gap that currently exists. 
Method 
We use the qualitative case study method for this paper by utilizing desk research, semi-structured 
interviews, video calls, attendance at various events and phone calls as data collection methods 
(Bryman, 2012). This method was chosen as the most suitable given that we wanted to explore in-
depth the experience of social enterprises concerning the collaboration with and the support 
received from the authorities. It also allowed us to start with an open mind about the themes and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
107 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
subthemes we need to know about so that concepts and theories can emerge from the data 
(Bryman, 2012; Adams, 2015). 
This method and research strategy have helped us with generalization efforts and the replication 
possibilities. This research was constructed to be replicated in both developed and developing 
countries to measure the contribution extent of intersectoral collaboration to SEs development. It 
provides a replication model that contributes to national and regional comparisons (Bryman, 2012).  
We explored and presented a national case study (North Macedonia) through the experience of 
four social enterprises (Pokrov, HumanaS, Mama Organa and Treebanks) across a period of four 
years (2017-2021). We chose North Macedonia because it is a developing country at the beginning 
of its SE development. It provided us with an excellent opportunity to explore the impact of the 
institutional support and collaboration for pioneering social enterprises at their nascent.  
We have conducted four interviews per social enterprise (16 in total). The analysis was completed 
using the TAMS analyser (Text Analysis Mark-up System), a qualitative coding and analysis program. 
The coding was done by creating a directory of central themes and subthemes. The main themes 
were organizational form, experience in the field, social mission, collaboration with institutions and 
institutional support. The subthemes involved a starting list including level of collaboration 
(national, local) type of support, best practices and lessons learned. 
The cases were chosen based on their experience in the respective fields and for the different levels 
of support received from the other sectors (government, business, third sector) extended across 
their different establishment periods and legal forms. They are the perfect example to present an 
overview of the economic, social and environmental impact made by social enterprises in North 
Macedonia. All cases are working on a national level with their activities in the following areas: 
Pokrov is a pioneer in SE, a therapeutic community supported by the church, working on 
rehabilitation and reintegration of people suffering from hazards by working in the production 
process of organic food.  
HumanaS is also a pioneering social enterprise that offers a range of social services (e.g., palliative 
care) and integrates vulnerable populations in the labour market.  
Mama Organa is a social enterprise working in a circular economy and helping vulnerable single 
mothers integrate into the labour market.  
Treebanks is a green social enterprise fighting pollution, reducing CO2 emissions by foresting 
deforested places. 
Results and Evidence 
We found evidence that coherent collaboration across sectors is vital for the development of SE. 
Political focus specifies support. Legal support delivers recognition. Institutional support provides 
the tools, and financial support the means to realise their role as change agents. 
The Case of North Macedonia 
The evidence also shows that in North Macedonia currently, there is an incoherent system of 
support. To attest to such evidence, we must overview the country's context and the development 
of these social enterprises. In the last five years, the country was and still is concentrated on 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
108 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
developing social services that define the political focus (Chichevaliev, 2019a, 2019b). This situation 
has resulted in the design and adoption of policy and legal documents, including a new Law on 
Social Protection, National Strategy for Deinstitutionalisation 2018-2027 “Timjanik”, National 
Strategy for Development of Social Enterprises with an Action Plan and other (Ministry of Labour 
and Social Policy, 2018, 2019, 2021). However, there is no legal framework for social 
entrepreneurship, and consequently, the country does not recognise social enterprises as legal 
entities, which contributed to adopting the hybrid form of operating. The lack of legal recognition 
of social enterprises fosters hybridity to be eligible for various institutional and financial support. 
An example of these developments is the Fund for Innovation and Technology Development call to 
support social enterprises, which was conditioned with establishing a trading company in 30 days 
if the applicant applied as a non-profit and was one of the winners. Legal framework lacks behind 
political support for SE in the country: coherent advancement of both SE policy and the law as its 
extended arm will create a solid positive push to social enterprises and enable those to deliver more 
to their key objectives.  
On an institutional level, the authorities still lack the capacity and options to contribute to the 
sector's development. They are finding pathways to collaborate with social enterprises, making it 
difficult to increase the level of cooperation between the actors.  
The country's scarce financial support for social enterprises does not facilitate sector development. 
The funding is mostly comprised of small grants and donations, which limit their capacity, activities 
and consequently their impact. There is a pressing need to develop financial mechanisms to support 
social enterprises and provide them with the means to realise their goal. 
The support from the business sector remains the most insubstantial contribution to their 
development. Many businesses recognise the work of social enterprises, but only an insufficient 
quantity of trade companies get involved in supporting and collaborating with social enterprises. 
The third sector remains the sector that supports social enterprises; however, this is expected given 
that most of the social enterprises in the country are registered as associations and foundations. 
Their support is primarily seen in advocating for the sector’s development and collaboration. 
The scale of the sector remains inconclusive. Many non-profit organizations are declaring 
themselves as social enterprises and with the lack of criteria and legal framework this information 
cannot be verified.  
The Case of Pokrov 
Pokrov is a therapeutic community, a Center for social rehabilitation of persons who use or abuse 
drugs and other psychotropic substances. The organization provides social services and 
accommodation in an institution for the treatment and rehabilitation of persons with addiction 
problems, with a capacity for 30 people (Kamilovska Trpovska et al., 2021).  
The social enterprise is a pioneer in the field, working for over a decade on social entrepreneurship 
development through advocacy and implementation of various projects while helping a vulnerable 
group of persons.  
They are also a hybrid organization with an established trade company and a non-profit 
organisation. ver the years, they have scaled up and employed the persons who once were 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
109 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
unemployable in their bakery “Bagel”. They work on a complete integration cycle of persons with 
addiction problems. 
Being a pioneer in the field combined with their mission eased the way to receiving political 
recognition and governmental grant to advance their development. They are also collaborating with 
the local authorities (municipality Strumica), where most of their operations are.  
Pokrov is the social enterprise that has received the most support from the super and 
hypermarkets, which opened their channels and stores for their products. It is a classic example of 
what can be achieved if the business sector gets involved and contributes to the development of 
social enterprises. 
The Case of Treebanks 
Treebanks is a hybrid organisation with a mission to fight pollution and reduce CO2 emission levels, 
specifically to produce treebanks a million of trees worldwide. They are pioneers in the 
environmental area. It is a Social Impact Award winner 2019 and World Summit Awards 2019 
nominee in the sector of environment and green energy.  
Treebanks use affiliate marketing (links) to fund their tree planting. They have partnerships with 
travel platforms, including Booking, Kiwi and Agora. The social enterprise plant a tree for each 
booking made from these sites. 
They started as a trade company with a social mission. They are both a civil society organization 
and a limited liability company. 
Treebanks received a grant from the Fund for Innovation and Technology Development by applying 
to a call for green solutions, proving that political focus is vital for social enterprises' support. 
Treebanks also collaborates with municipalities to obtain licences for planting trees in deforested 
places. To ease their way into getting a licence for foresting deforested places, they have been 
planning their actions and initiatives in accordance with the urbanisation plans of the 
municipalities. 
They have received strong support from civil society organizations and social enterprises, a grant 
from a governmental institution and collaborate with local authorities for their initiatives. It is a 
case of an intersectoral collaboration led by Treebanks which resulted in planting more than 15.000 
trees with various activists, supporters and constituents. In their latest activity in collaboration with 
the company Endava they have planted 3.200 trees. 
The Case of HumanaS 
HumanaS is a social enterprise with a double-fold mission. They offer social services such as 
palliative care and employ long-term unemployed persons at social risk to become caregivers and 
assistants. They have an accredited and certified training program to educate and increase the 
capacity of the persons who want to become caregivers and assistants.  
HumanaS is a pioneer in providing the said social services and currently are scaling up on a national 
level. They were one of the social enterprises at the forefront of solutions during the Covid-19 
pandemic, offering their services as volunteers delivering medications, hygiene and other products 
to the elderly’s home to mitigate the risk of exposure. This activity was conducted in cooperation 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
110 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
with the local authorities (municipality Centar). The municipality and the social enterprise have 
been cooperating and offering social services for the elderly. Currently, HumanaS services are being 
offered across the country, hoping to increase its coverage in partnership with local and national 
authorities.  
They collaborate with other civil society organizations offering social services and offer accredited 
and certified training program to educate and increase the capacity of their caregivers and 
assistants.  
It is a practice that should be replicated if the local authorities are more open to collaborate with 
social enterprises.  
The Case of Mama Organa 
The social enterprise Mama Organa is a registered handicraft company. They work in the field of 
circular economy. It fosters work integration of vulnerable groups of people, focusing on socially 
excluded single parents and gender equality. They collect food waste and transform it into soil 
substrates and organic fertilizers.  
They have tried to collaborate with the municipalities but have not received any support. It seems 
that their mission is still not attractive to the local or national authorities despite being multiple 
award winners (Best Green Business Idea, “Get in the Ring’ startup competition) and a 'Startup 
Europe Award 2019' special winner in the category "Best Job Growth Startup".  
The lack of support from national and local authorities did not stop their progress only hindered it 
and slowed it down. They currently have a vast portfolio of products, but the most interesting is 
the antibacterial and biodegradable solution that attracts the attention of EU companies and 
countries.  
They established an online shop during the pandemic, which contributed to their financial 
sustainability and scaling up. Despite bridging the lack of state support in the early days, now it is 
essential to be recognized and valorised to ease the way to the next development stage.  
Discussion and Conclusion 
As evident, vertical coherence across levels is yet to be achieved since it is a vital contributor to the 
overall intersectoral coherence for SE support. 
Intersectoral collaboration to foster SE is a necessary process that requires commitment from all 
stakeholders. SE is a multisectoral area where all the sectors and enterprises need to play the 
fundamental role of promoting intersectoral collaboration (Goyal & Sergi, 2015). Working towards 
alleviating and mitigating social issues is a societal issue that concerns all the sectors and 
stakeholders and influences social enterprises' operations and the well-being of the population 
overall. In addition to boosting SE and its key protagonists - social enterprises, intersectoral 
initiatives are paramount for creating and implementing innovative solutions for societal problems 
(Matos & Silvestre, 2013; Dembek et al., 2018). Such initiatives go beyond the governmental and 
market limit. Such evidence is found in both developing and developed countries (Sagawa & Sega, 
2000; Snow, 2001; Korsching & Allen, 2004). Intersectoral collaboration is essential for increasing 
the mutual learning experience, knowledge sharing and technology transfer (Squazzoni, 2009).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
111 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Interestingly, international companies have accepted such partnerships, but it is still questionable 
for the national business sector. Mama Organa has received small-scale support in buying their 
product to increase revenue. However, this support is insignificant with a view of the bigger picture. 
Financial and business sectors’ support lags behind the politics and policy for SE and leave social 
enterprises behind the political statements, struggling to find themselves the way forward in a 
fragmented sectoral environment. 
Intersectoral cooperation intensifies and grow social capital which is seen by Squazzoni (2009) "as 
a catalyst for establishing intersectoral initiative and strengthening self-reinforcing collaboration 
between participants and across sectors" (p.2). By developing such arrangements, the involved 
actors can learn best practices and then improve their modus operandi. Austin (2000) and 
Squazzoni (2008) add that innovation predominantly originates from horizontal partnerships 
between profit and non-profit, diversified partnerships, and intersectoral initiatives at a regional 
and community level. 
The practices of social enterprises Pokrov and HumanaS show us that with support from the sectors, 
social impact is very much possible, visible and easily recognizable. The combination and 
collaboration with business and civil society sectors have increased Treebanks foresting actions by 
one fifth.  
However, for such development to be possible, many factors should be aligned, including:  
Political factors (Aldrich and Fiol, 1994; Griffiths et al., 2013;), such as stability (Kaufmann and Kraay, 
2007; Klapper et al., 2009), will (Wronka, 2013; Chichevaliev, 2020), culture (Diaz Gonzalez and 
Dentchev, 2021), behaviour, activity, (Chowdhury, 2007; Heckl et al., 2007);  
Legal factors (Nicholls and Cho, 2006; Light, 2006; Fici, 2015), comprising definition (Dees & 
Anderson, 2006; Light, 2006), identity (Lasprogata and Cotton, 2003; Yunus, 2008; Fici, 2015), rules 
(Pache & Santos, 2010; Greenwod et al., 2011; Abdulmelike, 2017), judiciary (Frye & Zhuravskaya. 
2000; Johnson, 2000; Chemin, 2007); 
Institutional factors (Mair & Marti, 2009; Zahra et al., 2009; Dacin et al., 2010; Estrin et al., 2013) 
involving support (Dacin et al., 2010; Stephan et al., 2014; Hoogendoorn, 2016) and voids (Khanna 
and Palepu 1997; Danviboon, 2018); and 
Financial factors (Dacin et al., 2010) including available sources of funding (Hoogendoorn, 2011; 
Harris et al., 2013) and access thereof (Rangan et al., 2008).  
Each of these clusters represents an additional dimension that can facilitate or hinder the 
development of SE. However, only a coherent moving forward of those clusters across sectors and 
levels could enable effective and efficient social enterprises to deliver on their objectives. In North 
Macedonia, clusters and sectors move at different speeds, which slows even harms the 
development of a conducive environment for social enterprises. 
This paper covers an underrepresented area in an academic sense and presents a starting point in 
filling the gap in SE literature related to the effects of intersectoral collaboration for SE development. 
In terms of practical relevance, it shows the practitioners practical examples and experiences to 
learn from and reminds them that openness to intersectoral collaboration is fundamental to their 
success. It also provides policy and decision makers with best cases and lessons learned to foster 
intersectoral collaboration for SE development and growth. 
References  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
112 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Abdulmelike, A. (2017) Social Entrepreneurship: Literature Review and Current Practice in Ethiopia. European 
Journal of Business and Management. 9 (31), 86-93. 
Adams, W. (2015) Conducting Semi-Structured Interviews. In: Newcomer, E.K., Hatry, P.H., & Wholey, S.J. 
Handbook of Practical Program Evaluation: Fourth Edition. Jossey-Bass, pp. 492-505. 
Aldrich, H. E., & C. M. Fiol. (1994) Fools Rush in? The Institutional Context of Industry Creation. Academy of 
Management Review. 19 (4), 645–670. 
Alvord, S.H., Brown, L.D., & Letts, C.W. (2004) Social entrepreneurship and societal transformation: an 
exploratory study. The Journal of Applied Behavioral Science. 40 (3), 260–282. 
Austin, J. E. (2000) The collaboration challenge. How nonprofits and business succeed through strate- gic 
alliances. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. 
Boschma, R. (2005) Proximity and Innovation: A Critical Assessment. Regional Studies. 39, 61–74 
Bryman, A. (2012). Social Research Methods. Fourth Edition. Oxford University Press. New York. 
Chemin, M. (2007) The Impact of the Judiciary on Entrepreneurship: Evaluation of Pakistan’ s Access to Justice 
Programme. Working Paper 07-27. 
Chichevaliev, S. (2019a) Conducive Factors for Development and Promotion of Social Entrepreneurship in 
North Macedonia. Journal of European and Balkan Perspectives, 2(1): 62-74. 
Chichevaliev, S. (2019b) Feasibility Study – Exploring the Emergency Button Service and the Need for Other 
Support Services for Elderly in North Macedonia. City Red Cross of Skopje. 
Chichevaliev S. (2020) Key Factors of Conducive Environment for Development of Social Entrepreneurship in 
The Republic of North Macedonia. PhD Thesis. Skopje.  
Cho, A. (2006) Politics, values and social entrepreneurship: a critical appraisal, in Mair, J., Robinson, J. and 
Hockerts, K. (Eds), Social Entrepreneurship, Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke, 34-56. 
Chowdhury, S.M. (2007) Overcoming entrepreneurship development constraints: The case of Bangladesh. 
Journal of Enterprising Communities: People and Places in the Global Economy, 1 (3), 240-251. 
Circular Economy. (2021) The Circularity Gap Report 2021. Available from: https://www.circularity-
gap.world/2021. [Accessed: 15 February 2022].   
Dacin, P.A., Dacin, M.T. & Matear, M. (2010) Social entrepreneurship: why we don't need a new theory and 
how we move forward from here. Academy of Management Perspectives, 24(3): 37–57. 
Dacin, M. T., Dacin, P.A., & Tracey, P. (2011) Social Entrepreneurship: A Critique and Future Directions. 
Organization Science. 22, 1203–13.  
Danviboon, P. (2018) Why do institutional voids occur in emerging markets? How can multinational 
enterprises (MNEs) overcome these voids and why may this enhance their performance. Individual Report 
BMAN73632: International Business and Emerging Markets 2nd Semester 2017 / 2018.  
Dembek, K., York, J. & Singh, P. (2018) Creating value for multiple stakeholders: Sustainable business models 
at the Base of the Pyramid. Journal of Cleaner Production. 196, 1600-1612. 
Dentchev, N. A., Haezendonck, E., & van Balen, M. (2016) The Role of Governments in the Business and 
Society Debate. Business & Society, 56(4), 527–544.  
Dentchev, N. A., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, R., Nyberg, T., Tang, X., 
Van Hoof, B. & Jonker, J. (2018) Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field of 
research 
and 
a 
future 
research 
agenda. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
194, 
695-703. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.05.156 
Dees, J., & Anderson, B. (2006) Framing a Theory of Social Entrepreneurship: Building on Two Schools of 
Practice and Thought in Research on Social Entrepreneurship. ARNOVA Occasional Paper Series, 1(3), 39-66. 
Diaz Gonzalez, A. & Dentchev, N.A. (2021) Ecosystems in support of social entrepreneurs: a literature review, 
Social Enterprise Journal, 17 (3), 329-360.  
Estrin, S., Mickiewicz, T., & Stephan, U. (2013) Entrepreneurship, Social Capital, and Institutions: Social and 
Commercial Entrepreneurship across Nations. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 37(3): 479–504. 
European Parliament. (2017) EU support for social entrepreneurs. Briefing March 2017. Available: 
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/RegData/etudes/BRIE/2017/599346/EPRS_BRI(2017)599346_EN.pdf. 
[Accessed: 22 March 2022]. 
Fedeli. M.D. (2019) The challenges of transitions towards a more sustainable business. International 
Conference on New Business Models. Berlin. July 2019. 
Fici, A. (2015). Recognition and legal Forms of Social Enterprise in Europe: A Critical Analysis from a 
Comparative Law Perspective. Euricse Working Papers, 82|15. 
Finnis, J. (2011) Natural Law and Natural Rights, 2nd ed. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
Frye, T., Zhuravskaya, E. (2000) Rackets, regulation, and the rule of law. Journal of Law Economics & 
Organization. Oxford: Oct 2000. 16 (2), 478. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
113 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Goyal, S. & Sergi, B. (2015) Social entrepreneurship and sustainability - Understanding the context and key 
characteristics. Journal of Security and Sustainability Issues. 4(3), 269-278. 
Greenwood, R., Raynard, M., Kodeih, F., Micelotta, E.R., & Lounsbury, M. (2011) Institutional complexity and 
organizational responses. Academy of Management Annals. 5 (1), 317-371. 
Griffiths, M., Gundry, L., & Kickul, J. (2013) The socio-political, economic, and cultural determinants of social 
entrepreneurship activity: An empirical examination. Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development. 
20 (2), 341-357 
Harding, R. (2004) Social enterprise: the new economic engine? Business Strategy Review. 15(4), 39–43. 
Harris, P.S., Renko, M., & Caldwell, K. (2013) Accessing social entrepreneurship: Perspectives of people with 
disabilities and key stakeholders. Journal of Vocational Rehabilitation. 38 (2013), 35–48. 
Hartigan, P. (2006) Delivering on the Promise of Social Entrepreneurship: Challenges Faced in Launching a 
Global Social Capital Market. In Nicholls, A. (eds.) Social Entrepreneurship: New Models of Sustainable Social 
Change. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 329-355. 
Haugh, H. (2005). A research agenda for social entrepreneurship. Social Enterprise Journal, 1 (1), 1-12. 
Heckl, E. & Pecher, I. (2007) Study on Practices and Policies in the Social Enterprise Sector in Europe. [on line] 
Vienna, Austria: KMU Forschung Austria Austrian Institute for SME Research (Published June 2007). Available: 
https://ec.europa.eu/docsroom/documents/2292/attachments/1/translations/en/renditions/pdf. 
[Accessed: 13 February 2022]. 
Hibbert, S., Hogg, G., & Quinn, T. (2005) Social entrepreneurship: Understanding consumer motives for buying 
The Big Issue. Journal of Consumer Behaviour. 4 (3), 159-172. 
Hoogendoorn, B. (2011). Social Entrepreneurship in the Modern Economy Warm Glow, Cold Feet. PhD Thesis. 
Erasmus University Rotterdam. 
Hoogendoorn, B. (2016). The Prevalence and Determinants of Social Entrepreneurship at the Macro Level. 
Journal of Small Business Management, 54 (S1), 278–296. 
International Institute for Sustainable Development. (2021) The Sustainable Use of Natural Resources: The 
Governance 
Challenge. 
Earth 
Negotiations 
Bulletin, 
Brief 
#16. 
April 
2021. 
Available: 
https://www.iisd.org/system/files/2021-04/still-one-earth-natural-resources.pdf. [Accessed: 22 March 
2022]. 
Johnson, S. (2000) Literature Review on Social Entrepreneurship. Canadian Centre for Social Entrepreneurship. 
Kaufmann, D. & Kraay, A. (2007). Governance Indicators: Where ARE WE, Where Should We Be Going? World 
Bank, Washington, DC. 
Klapper, L., Lewin, A., & Delgado, J.M.Q. (2009) The Impact of the Business Environment on the Business 
Creation Process. The World Bank, New York, NY. 
Korsching, P. F., & Allen, J. C. (2004) Locality based entrepreneurship: A strategy for community economic 
vitality. Community Development Journal, 39, 385-400. 
Khanna, T., & Palepu, K. (1997) Why focused strategies may be wrong for emerging markets. Harvard Business 
Review. July-August, 41-54. 
Kuratko, D. (2020) Entrepreneurship: Theory, Process, Practice. Eleventh Edition. Boston. Cengage Learning, 
Inc. 
Lasprogata, G.A., & Cotton, M.N. (2003) Contemplating enterprise: the business and legal challenges of social 
entrepreneurship. American Business Law Journal, 41 (1), 67– 113. 
Light, P.C. (2006) Reshaping social entrepreneurship. Stanford Social Innovation Review, 47–51 (Fall). 
Lindgardt, Z., Reeves, M., Stalk, G., & Deimler, M.S. (2009) Business Model Innovation: When the Game Gets 
Tough, Change the Game. December 2009. The Boston Consulting Group.  
Mair, J. & Marti, I. (2009) Entrepreneurship in and Around Institutional Voids: A case study from Bangladesh. 
Journal of Business Venturing, 24(5): 419–435. 
Matos, S. & Silvestre, B. (2013) Managing stakeholder relations when developing sustainable business 
models: The case of the Brazilian energy sector. Journal of Cleaner Production. 45, 61-73.  
Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. (2018) National Strategy for Deinstitutionalisation 2018-2027 “Timjanik”. 
Available: 
https://www.mtsp.gov.mk/content/pdf/strategii/Strategii%202018/Strategija_deinstitucionalizacija_Timjan
ik_2018-2027.pdf [Accessed: 31 March 2022]. 
Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. (2019) Law on Social Protection (Official Gazzette of RNM, n.104). 
Available: https://mtsp.gov.mk/content/pdf/zakoni/2019/28.5_zakon_SZ.pdf [Accessed: 31 March 2022]. 
Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. (2021) National Strategy for Development of Social Enterprises in the 
Republic 
of 
North 
Macedonia. 
Available: 
https://www.mtsp.gov.mk/content/%D0%A4%D0%98%D0%9D%D0%90%D0%9B%D0%9D%D0%90%20%D0

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
114 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
%92%D0%95%D0%A0%D0%97%D0%98%D0%88%D0%90%20NACIONALNA%20STRATEGIJA%20ZA%20SP%2
009112020.pdf [Accessed: 31 March 2022]. 
Mort, G.S., Weerawardena, J., Carnegie, K. (2003) Social entrepreneurship: towards conceptualization. 
International Journal of Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Marketing, 8 (1), 76-89. 
National Research Council. (2002) Scientific research in education. Committee on Scientific Principles for 
Education Research. Shavelson, R.J., and Towne, L., Editors. Center for Education. Division of Behavioral and 
Social Sciences and Education. Washington, DC: National Academy Press. 
Nicholls, A. and Cho, A.H. (2006). Social entrepreneurship: the structuration of a field. In: Nicholls, A. (Ed.). 
Social entrepreneurship: new models of sustainable change. Oxford University Press, Oxford, pp. 99–118. 
Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development. (2011) The Economic Significance of Natural 
Resources: Key Points for Reformers in Eastern Europe, Caucasus and Central Asia. Available: 
https://www.oecd.org/env/outreach/2011_AB_Economic%20significance%20of%20NR%20in%20EECCA_EN
G.pdf. [Accessed: 22 March 2022]. 
Pachura, A. (2021) Modelling of cross-organisational cooperation for social entrepreneurship. Social Sciences. 
10 (6), 1–14. 
Pache, A.C., Santos, F. (2010) When worlds collide: The internal dynamics of organizational responses to 
conflicting institutional demands. Academy of Management Review. 35 (3), 455-476. 
Rangan, V.K., Leonard, B.H., McDonald, S. (2008) The Future of Social Enterprise. Harvard Business School, 
Working Paper, p.1-9. 
Sagawa, S., & Sega, E. (2000). Common interest, common good: Creating value through business and social 
sector partnerships. California Management Review, 42, 105-122. 
Spear, R. (2006) Social entrepreneurship: A different model? International Journal of Social Economics. 33 (5–
6), 339-410. 
Snow, L. K. (2001). Community transformation: Turning threats into opportunities. Chicago: ACTA. 
Stephan, U., Uhlaner, L.M. & Stride, C. (2014). Institutions and Social Entrepreneurship: The Role of 
Institutional Voids, Institutional Support, and Institutional Configurations. Journal of International Business 
Studies, 46: 308–331. 
Squazzoni, F. (2008). Local economic development initiatives from the bottom-up: The role of community 
development corporations. Community Development Journal. (Advance Access published on May 13, 2008). 
Squazzoni, F. (2009) Social entrepreneurship and economic development in Silicon Valley: A case study on 
the Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network. Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly. 38 (5), 869–883. 
Thompson, J. & Doherty, B. (2006) The diverse world of social enterprise: a collection of social enterprise 
stories. International Journal of Social Economics. 33 (5-6), 361-375. 
Tracey, P. & Jarvis, O. (2007) Toward a theory of social venture franchising. Entrepreneurship: Theory & 
Practice. 31 (5), 667–685. 
Waddock SA (1988) Building successful partnerships. Sloan Management Review. 29 (4), 17-23. 
Wronka, M. (2013) Analyzing the Success of Social Enterprises - Critical Success Factors Perspective. 
Management, Knowledge and Learning International Conference 2013. 
Yunus, M., (2008). Creating a World without Poverty: Social Business and the Future of Capitalism, Global 
Urban Development, 4 (2), 1-19. 
Zahra, S.A., Gedajlovic, E., Neubaum, D.O. & Shulman, J.M. (2009). A typology of social entrepreneurs: 
motives, search processes and ethical challenges. Journal of Business Venturing, 24 (5), 519–532. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
115 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Using dialogic methods and tools to 
identify accessible ecosystem actor 
collaboration pathways between 
Canadian Ashoka Fellows and 
Canadian Ashoka Changemaker 
Campuses. 
 
Charmaine Lyn1*, Nicole Norris2, Jennifer DeCoste3 
1Ashoka Canada, Montreal Canada; 2Centre for Changemaking and 
Social Innovation, Georgian College, Barrie Canada; 
3Life.School.House, Nova Scotia 
*clyn@ashoka.org 
Abstract 
This paper describes a dialogic prototyping approach for identifying collaboration pathways to 
enable Canadian post secondary business models to develop new methodologies to maximize the 
co-creation of socio-cultural value and the co-construction of social infrastructure. Using the 
workshop outlined in the paper, we offer a preliminary framework for engaging actors in the 
process, share our inspiration for the convening, and propose where and how the process could be 
adapted to design a post-secondary business model innovation for system change exercises. 
Keywords: 
Social Impact, Dialogic Design, Ecosystem Actors, Relational Systems Thinking, Flourishing 
Business Models 
Context Setting 
Building social infrastructure is a noble call to action; it offers both a vision and a call to practical 
implementation. This speculative paper evolved out of the convening of three Canadian ecosystem 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
116 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
actors work within the context of maximizing social impact and social innovation in Canada.  The 
ecosystem actors included a Canadian Ashoka Fellow, two Canadian Ashoka Changemaker 
Campuses and Ashoka Canada to explore the ‘do’ in building social infrastructure nationally.  
 
In 2017 the McConnell Foundation, its RECODE program, and Simon Fraser University co-published 
the white paper Maximizing the Capacities of Advanced Education Institutions to Build Social 
Infrastructure for Canadian Communities (Strandberg et al. 2017). The paper examined ‘the social 
imperative and the business case for accelerated social innovation, by introducing a typology of 
instruments that could support advanced educational institutions in amplifying social infrastructure 
capacity for Canadian communities. (Strandberg et al. 2017)   
 
Ashoka Canada is a non-profit that recognizes, supports, and connects a national network of leading 
changemakers. These changemakers operate within communities as leading social entrepreneurs 
(Ashoka Fellows) and within advanced educational institutions (Ashoka Changemaker Campuses) 
as skilled intrapreneurs. In 2020, Ashoka Canada contributed to the A Milestone Report & Three 
Year Retrospective Review Maximizing Social Impact in Canadian Post-Secondary (2020) as an 
ecosystem actor engaged in national conversations about post-secondary institutions as 
contributors to societal-well being, conversations that were energized by the 2017 white paper 
(Strandberg et al. 2017). 
 
Ashoka Canada's interest in hosting this generative collaboration opportunity with key ecosystem 
actors is anchored in its strategic goals to expand its bridging work through the engagement and 
activation of trusted relations with Fellows and Changemaker Campuses. Pre-paper all three actors 
noted above had thematically commented that collaboration across sectors, while promising, is 
complex and rife with structural and epistemological barriers. There was an agreement that 
working to dismantle these barriers required shared vision, common language, new tools and trust; 
all of which necessitated sacred spaces in which these relational elements can be seen and 
understood (Goodchild, 2021).  
 
This paper documents how we used a generative co-design approach to build out a framework for 
visualizing collaboration pathways, and to actualize the definition of Social Infrastructure as “the 
organizational arrangements and deliberate investments in society’s systems, relationships and 
structures that enable society to create a resilient, just, equitable and sustainable world. It includes 
social, economic, environmental and cultural assets.” (Strandberg et al. 2017). Our work together 
started with a shared perspective that ecosystem actors in community, post-secondary, and other 
sectors are increasingly called upon to design collaborations for solutions to complex social 
challenges, it was determined by the stakeholders above to use a values-based approach to 
conviviality (Illich and Lang, 1973) in constructing this framework. 
Introduction Through An Overview 
It was the intention of workshop outcomes outlined in this paper and adjacent recommendations 
of the 2017 McConnell white paper (Strandberg et al. 2017) to open up broader generative 
dialogues on the future pathways for “post-secondary institutions beyond teaching and research to 
include their contributory roles in the communities of which they are a part.” (Strandberg, 2017). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
117 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Within the 2017 McConnell white paper, a historical overview was provided on the higher 
education Commercialization Pivot of the mid 1990’s. This was a movement supported by the 
Federal Government to adjust academic institutional paradigms towards the Entrepreneurial 
University. The intent was to increase commercialization outcomes from research funding through 
collaborations with industry as a strategy to support societal well-being through economic 
development and measured return on public funding investments 
 
Today, that shift to the commercialization narrative has become the dominant frame in which 
Canadian Post-Secondary measures contribution to the community. Importantly, the 
commercialization shift provides precedent that the sector can shift again. With this historical 
overview as a starting point, it provides the provocation for the 2017 McConnell white paper’s 
typology. The typology covers institutional tools and instruments (Fig 1) available to Post Secondary 
stakeholders to support community ambition for flourishing, once this community ambition has 
been accepted as a core institutional objective. (Strandberg et al. 2017)  
 
As no definition was provided for flourishing within the 2017 white paper and based upon how 
Social Infrastructure was described in the text (Strandberg, 2017), we have selected to define 
Flourishing as cited from An Ontology for Strongly Sustainable Business Models (Upwards and Jones, 
2015). Upwards and Jones established Flourishing as Strongly Sustainable, pulling from sustainable 
development and management literature to articulate “a strongly sustainable firm… if it were to 
exist, an organization that only enabled strongly sustainable outcomes as one that creates positive 
environmental, social, and economic value throughout its value network, thereby sustaining the 
possibility that human and other life can flourish on this planet forever (Upwards and Jones, citing 
Ehrenfeld, 2000a; Willard et al., 2014).  
 
Figure 1. Typology of Instruments for Institutional Engagement (Strandberg et al. 2017) 
 
 
The 2017 white paper concluded that “Net new funding is not necessarily required to rethink and 
reengineer an institution’s asset base toward social infrastructure benefits. The biggest investment 
is in fostering the paradigm shift, from which the innovations and impact should follow.” 
(Strandberg, p 26)  This was identified by a Continuum of Beliefs (Fig 2) and a Continuum of 
Practices. (Fig 3) that could provide a preliminary framework for institutional champions to utilize 
the report’s typology (Strandberg et al. 2017) and mobilize a field building movement for Canadian 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
118 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Post-Secondary Institutions to 1) activate the instruments; 2) further the development of social 
infrastructure; and 3) prioritize and address critical social issues in Canada. (Strandberg, p 29) 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Continuum of Beliefs (Strandberg pg 28.)  
 
 
Figure 3. Continuum of Practices (Strandberg pg 26.)  
 
 
Since 2017, A Milestone Report & Three Year Retrospective Review Maximizing Social Impact in 
Canadian Post-Secondary has been published that outlines developments, “the visions, objectives 
and (post-secondary) activities of these initiatives arising from the (2017) White Paper’s Call to 
Action” (Dioury, Varga-Toth, Strandberg et al., 2020). Included was the addition of a Social 
Innovation Pathway (Fig 4) to add to the typology (Fig 1) outlined in the 2017 Whitepaper.  The 
Social Innovation Pathway (Dioury, Varga-Toth, Strandberg et al., 2020) identified  key strategic 
planning elements that post-secondary institutions could leverage to unlock institutional assets and 
instruments for the greater good. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
119 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. The Social Impact Pathway (Dioury, Varga-Toth, Strandberg et al., 2020) 
 
Hypothesizing New Value Co-Creation Logics 
The 2017 McConnell white paper identified the effort required to make the system change it 
proposed - transitioning post-secondary institutions’ business case to that of systems intervenor 
(Meadows, 2008) for community social innovation -  to be predominantly an investment in fostering 
a paradigm shift (Strandberg, p 26). It further outlined this paradigm shift could be measured 
through fostering a Continuum of Beliefs (Fig 2) and a Continuum of Practices (Fig 3), facilitated 
through a Social Impact Pathway (Fig 3) and inspired by the typology of Instruments for Institutional 
Engagement (Strandberg et al. 2017)  
 
In consideration of this foundational work, and building on maximizing social infrastructure as a 
noble call to action, the stakeholders involved in this paper (Ashoka Canada, an Ashoka Fellow and 
Ashoka Changemaker Campus) determined this as a strong starting point to speculate how the Firm 
- the post-secondary institution itself - may need to consider what types of business model 
innovations might happen at each stage of the Continuums. Explicitly, the capability of a post-
secondary institution to transform its service offering into a relational systemic value co-creation 
that “1) activates the firm’s instruments; 2) furthers the development of social infrastructure in 
collaboration with community ambition; and 3) prioritizes and addresses critical social issues in 
Canada as an actor within a larger post-secondary sectoral environmental, social and economic 
ecosystem” (adapted from Strandberg, p 29) (Jones and Upwards, 2014). 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
120 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
This paper’s stakeholders went on to further inquire how might the post-secondary institution’s 
business model evolution be conceptualized and communicated to non-institutional stakeholders 
or ecosystem actors - including diverse cultural groups within community - along these continuums 
(Fig 2 and 3) and; what tools and methodologies might be used to best co-design collaborations 
between these stakeholders to realize a flourishing future together. (Dioury, Varga-Toth, 
Strandberg et al., 2020).  This inquiry was done through the design of a dialogic workshop that 
convened actors working within post-secondary institutions, Ashoka Canada and social 
entrepreneurs working in the community. 
 
Prior to this workshop, as part of the design process and literature review, a three horizon 
framework (Sharpe, 2015) was used to make meaning of how a ‘flourishing future’ paradigm shift 
might evolve. We identified that post-secondary institutions would need to take into consideration 
social ecologies of culture as the ‘community ambition’ (Strandberg et al. 2017).  Integration of this 
community ambition would thus require institutions to consider as part of their strategic plans “the 
future viability of human generations within groups associated by settlements, arts, religion and 
cosmological beliefs, and the continuity of knowledge practices.” (Jones, 2017).  This hypothesized 
value co-creation would need to be a co-designed relationship between ecosystem actors and 
stakeholders within post-secondary institutions to reposition the post-secondary institution as 
primarily a socio-cultural actor, as opposed to a socio-economic actor. 
 
The tension of repositioning the post-secondary institution’s ecosystem actor role suggested that, 
if we sought to accelerate social innovation that could contribute to a strongly sustainable future 
for all, then activation should start with community-based cultural epistemologies. This aligned to 
the pluralist framework outlined in Melanie Goodchild’s Relational System Thinking article 
(Goodchild et al., 2021) about co-creation of the sacred space between systems. In her article, 
Goodchild, in conversation with Indigenous and Western systems thought-leaders, presents an 
Indigenous-European dialogical framework that produces visual cultural artifacts “for how healthy 
relationships between peoples from different ‘laws and beliefs’ can be established.” (Goodchild et 
al., 2021). Identified as the Two-Row Methodology, the concept and spirit has been suggested as a 
framework or model for simultaneous intellectual co-existence recognizing the independence and 
interdependence of cross-cultural relationships - specifically in Indigenous-settler relationships. 
(Goodwin citing, McGregor 2011, 2009 and 2008) 
Designing Our Approach 
Through its Changemaker Campus network, Ashoka Canada works with social intrapreneurs - 
“Change Leaders” - staff and faculty who identify as innovative, creative, collaborative, imbued with 
a sense of public purpose, and with a bias to action. Embedded in the complex bureaucracies of 
higher education institutions, they are operationally situated at the institution’s boundaries, where 
it meets the community. They deliver their programs and teach and conduct research; and they 
also develop workarounds to hack processes and policies, overcoming unnecessary barriers to 
getting resources deployed in service of both community and higher education goals.  
Ashoka Fellows are leading social entrepreneurs working with and for their communities on the 
front line, addressing society’s intractable challenges. Many have struggled to establish and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
121 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
navigate meaningful and useful partnerships with post-secondary institutions. Ashoka has observed 
what was evidenced in the 2020 milestone report (Dioury, Varga-Toth, Strandberg et al., 2020) that 
when community social entrepreneurs and institutional social intrapreneurs are successful in 
establishing collaboration pathways, the benefits are the co-construction of social infrastructure 
for Canadian communities. (Strandberg et al. 2017).   
The efforts needed to establish these successful collaboration pathways though, are often 
epistemologically difficult and energy intensive for resource strapped stakeholders and generally 
have no accessible or culturally inclusive place-based roadmap to convene the stakeholders. 
Ashoka’s role as a trusted intermediary and holder of value aligned relationships both with 
community-based social entrepreneurs, campuses and national funders allows it to be a systems 
intervenor between these ecosystem actors, who do not commonly engage with each other. It is 
from this vantage point Ashoka identified it could invite actors from its Fellows and Campus 
networks to convene and surface, through democratic dialogue and co-created visualizations, the 
patterns of intersecting interests and values that could ultimately lead to a framework for designing 
mutually beneficial collaborations for socio-cultural flourishing. 
With intention to create a convening event, and inspired by 1) the definition of a Strongly 
Sustainable Enterprise, (Upwards and Jones, 2015); 2) the ecosystemic repositioning of the post-
secondary institution as socio-cultural actor (Jones, 2017) and; 3) the epistemological approach of 
the sacred space between systems (Goodchild, 2021) we selected the following approaches to build 
out a Connector Workshop between an Ashoka Fellow and several Ashoka Campuses:  
 
Liberating Structures: User Experience Fishbowl - used to facilitate a storytelling dialogue to 
surface how value is expressed both implicitly and explicitly within each stakeholder’s business 
model. (Lipmanowicz and McCandless, 2013) 
Flourishing Business Model Canvas (Fig 5)- used to capture and visualize how Fishbowl participants 
understand how value co-creation happens in each business model. (Upward and Jones, 2015), 
(Hoveskog, Norris and Ostuzzi, 2020) 
Flourishing Wayfind Cards (Fig 6) - used to sense make new relational pathways for collaboration 
between stakeholder’s business models (Norris, 2019) 
 
Figure 5 - Proposed Flourishing Business Model Canvas 2.1 (Upward and Jones, 2015), (Hoveskog, 
Norris and Ostuzzi, 2020) 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
122 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
Figure 6 - Flourishing Wayfinding Cards (Norris, 2019) 
 
 
Convening Actors 
The convening itself was designed as a series of fishbowls held within a four hour workshop 
(Lipmanowicz and McCandless, 2013), leveraging the relationships of trust that existed between 
Ashoka, community (Fellows) and post-secondary (Changemaker Campus) partners. Ashoka Canada 
invited participants from its Ashoka Fellows and Ashoka Campus networks, to listen to what 
conditions are needed for collaborations across two very distinct sectors (community social 
entrepreneurs and higher education). At the same time, participants were asked to hold space for 
simultaneous intellectual co-existence, recognizing the independence and interdependence 
relationships (adapted from Goodchild, 2021).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
123 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Our workshop design team of Ashoka Canada, Georgian College (Changemaker Campus) and 
Life.School.House (Fellow) considered: How could we hold space for people to tell their stories, and 
for their stories to be seen and heard with curiosity, and empathy? What would enable listeners to 
find relational meaning in these stories? How might we enable participants to self-inquire about 
long-held assumptions that actors from community or postsecondary had of each other and even 
of themselves.  
As part of this workshop dialogue our intention was to make implicit narratives explicit, and surface 
the frustrations to systemic barriers that each actor experienced differently, and the agency (Geels 
and Schot, 2007) each actor feel they had in affecting the transitional space of moving towards a 
third horizon of ‘flourishing’ (Sharpe, 2015). Post discussion participants were then asked to 
sensemake themes and pathways from the dialogue by visualizing the benchmarks of each actor’s 
landscape including goals, value co-creation, needs, activities and how relationships are developed 
over time. (Upward and Jones, 2015) (Norris, 2019)  
Facilitating The Fishbowl Dialogues 
In the fishbowl process, one actor (or actor group) was in the ‘fishbowl’ at a time. While there, they 
are asked a series of questions by a facilitator. All other participants were listening. An in-person 
gathering would see the interviewee and the questioner face to face with other participants seated 
within a series of expanding circles around them but due to the pandemic our virtual ‘fishbowls’ 
were facilitated as online gathering via Zoom and using MURAL (Fig 7).  Participants in the workshop 
who were not  “in the Fishbowl” being interviewed were assigned the role of active listener and 
documentarian. They were instructed on how to use a specific area on the MURAL to capture key 
questions, insights, and observations from what they were hearing. In this variation the interviewer 
and interviewee were ‘pinned’ to the video conferencing screen and all other participants were 
asked to turn off their videos.  
Interview questions were drafted by the facilitation team of Ashoka Canada and Georgian College 
and were based upon the Flourishing Business Model canvas lexicon and a consultation with the 
Ashoka Fellow and selected Changemaker Campus Change Leads. The final questions were shared 
with interviewees several days in advance of the session. Each interviewee was also offered a 
second pre-workshop briefing session to walk through the process and the tools - Flourishing 
Business Model canvas and Flourishing Wayfind Cards - to be used in the workshop and ensuring 
they were comfortable.   
 
Figure 7 - Fishbowl Workshop MURAL Board. MURAL is a digital-first visual collaboration tool, 
where everyone can contribute equally.  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
124 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
As the Fishbowl interviews were being conducted and the active listeners documented their 
observations in MURAL, research assistants scanned and clustered the listeners’ observations and 
questions making sense in real-time.  Post Fishbowls, participants were then invited to reflect and 
make sense of themes and perspectives that were captured, showing listeners how their 
observations were being seen, heard, and respected as well.  
Ashoka Fellow Fishbowl - Life.School.House 
The first Fishbowl was intended to represent a community narrative through the Founder of 
Life.School.House, an Ashoka Fellow. Life.School.House is modelled after a folk school, uniquely 
adapted to focus on inclusion and connection using a barter-based trade system of skills with a 
vision to scale as a moment across Canada. Life.School.House was also identified by the Founder as 
a grassroots organization.   
 
The first Fishbowl surfaced the distinct activities and needs of Life.School.House’s model, as well as 
the value that the model is co-creating in its community (Fig 8). Answers to the interviewer 
questions were mapped to the Flourishing Business Model canvas as relationships across the 
canvas. At the same time participants were documenting what they were hearing as the Ashoka 
Fellow outlined the partnerships they believed would benefit Life.School.House around evaluation 
and validation of outcomes to further scale the model.  
 
What emerged was a narrative of the grassroots organization’s strong desire to partner with higher 
education; a desire based on a sincere sense of potential for mutual benefit and a struggle to gain 
access to the typology of instruments as outlined in the 2017 McConnell white paper and outline in 
Figure 1. (Strandberg et al. 2017) The Ashoka Fellow had sought out partnerships with higher 
education researchers in the past and had experienced epistemological and socio-cultural barriers. 
She expressed frustration and confusion about a system in which resources that she valued were 
not readily accessible to organizations like hers; and required a disproportionate amount of labor 
and time to access on the community organization side. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
125 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 8. Outcomes of Fishbowl #1 the core needs of Life.School.House in collaborating with Post Secondary 
Institutions. 
 
It became clear that assumptions, hypothesized as barriers to mutual value co-creation, could be 
behaving eco-systemically as ‘Eroding Goals’ (Meadows, 2008) for grassroots and community-based 
organizations. This system archetype might explain how negative feedback loops are hampering 
the social imperative and the business case for accelerated social innovation for Canadian 
communities (Strandberg et al. 2017) and offer a place to intervene. 
Ashoka Campuses Fishbowls - Royal Roads University and Georgian College 
The second and third Fishbowls centered around Ashoka Campus Narratives and featured Ashoka 
Campus Change Leaders in the areas of Administration, Research and Experiential Learning. Each 
participating Ashoka Changemaker Campus was asked a similar series of questions to surface 
promising pathways into post-secondary partnerships from a research perspective at Royal Roads 
University and experiential learning perspective at Georgian College. 
 
The Campus Fishbowls surfaced the complexity of the post secondary institution’s business model. 
This includes public institutional governance structures for designing, funding and delivering 
curricular and co-curricular offerings within unionized and academically rigoured constructs. 
Educators, researchers, staff and program directors - even the most community-engaged - must 
operate within delineated and codified organizational hierarchies to offer a contribution back to 
the organization under the dominant commercialization narrative. (Strandberg et al. 2017)  
As individual post secondary institutional stakeholders, they also desire to effect meaningful 
positive change in their communities and express that affinity in all the ways that their institutional 
structures permit and enable. But the systems they inhabit - 13-week semesters, research grant 
timelines - limit their ability to show up for a grassroots organization to help them navigate the 
system in the way in which the Ashoka Fellow identified in Fig 8.  This does not preclude meaningful 
collaborations. It only constrains the cadence and resources forcing post-secondary institutions into 
a ‘Shifting The Burden’ archetype (Meadows, 2008)  and making it harder to build capacity internally 
to “prioritize and address critical social issues in Canada.” (Strandberg, p 29).   
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
126 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 9. Surfacing of Fishbowl #2 the core activities of Royal Roads University that would benefit 
community-based organizations and maximize accelerated social innovation for Canadian communities. 
 
Figure 10. Surfacing of Fishbowl #3 the core activities of Georgian College that would benefit community-
based organizations and maximize accelerated social innovation for Canadian communities. 
 
Outcomes 
When the Fishbowls were concluded, the entire group of participants was invited to explore the 
MURAL board and the many different interpretations and reactions documented. This included the 
outcomes of the real-time clustering that was completed by the Research Assistants and how the 
information shared was interpreted in the context of the lexicon of the Flourishing Business Model 
Canvas. Participants were invited to share their interpretations of the clustering, and were 
encouraged to contribute their own perspectives to the sense-making. This process surfaced a 
diverse range of perspectives and patterns of convergence and divergence around different 
pathways or journeys for how Life.School.House, Royal Roads University, and Georgian College 
could work together to achieve common goals and co-create economic, social and environmental 
value (Upward and Jones, 2015).  
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
127 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Post-workshop sense-making used the Flourishing Wayfinding Cards (Norris, 2019) to construct 
stories of how collaboration journeys might unfold through the engagement of an Ashoka Campus’ 
activities (Fig 9 and 10) to respond to the needs of the Ashoka Fellow (Fig 8).  This speculative 
wayfinding can be seen in Figures 11.a and 11.b using the elements of the Flourishing Business 
Model canvas constructed in a co-creation of ‘community ambition’ within the business model of 
the post-secondary institution. 
 
 
Figure 11.a Sensemaking Clusters for the various Needs of Life.School.House 
 
 
Figure 11.b Sensemaking Cluster - specific to the Life.School.House Need for awareness of the 
social impact and value co-creation. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
128 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Key Insights:  
Once the wayfinding journeys were translated using the Flourishing Wayfind Cards (Norris, 2019), 
a thematic analysis was done to provide the Ashoka Fellow and Ashoka Changemaker Campuses 
with an overview of what surfaced as a result of the workshop for Ashoka Canada and how this 
would clarify next steps. This included a preliminary check-list to help a community-based social 
entrepreneur co-create effective campus-based partnerships. (Fig 12). 
 
Figure 12 - Steps For Ashoka Fellow (Community) to design collaboration pathway with Ashoka 
Campus (Post Secondary Institution) 
 
 
Other key insights and conclusions identified by listening participants include: 
 
There is promise in what deep connections between fellows (community) and campuses could 
bring that could lead to advanced educational institutions building social infrastructure with and 
for Canadian communities. 
Community organizations that can clearly articulate their needs are better equipped to engage 
academic partners. However, this can be a huge reach for many grassroots organizations. They are 
quite busy “doing” and may struggle to see the value of putting in effort to learn and then use the 
language required to speak to academic partners or do the research to identify what might even be 
possible (ie: “capstone projects” hold great potential for community-focused deployment, but if 
community partners haven’t heard of it, they cannot reasonably be expected to seek it out).  
Community-focused research holds potential for powerful transformational experiences for 
undergraduate students.  
Bridging collaboration requires complex conversations with complex stakeholders. The 
Connector Workshop is one way to simplify complexity and bring increased clarity and empathy for 
participants. While the process appears simple, its delivery requires certain conditions and the 
people who facilitate it require specific competencies, approaches, and mindsets. 
Change-focused research is more effective when characterized by relationship-based co-creation. 
Where relationships exist, institutions, and the people within them, can hack their system and make 
something happen (the strong ad hoc community practices mentioned in figure 3, Continuum of 
Practices).  However, the challenge is when a new actor seeks a pathway into a higher ed institution, 
without the benefit of an existing relationship. An institutional unit or team that is skilled in building 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
129 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
and holding relationships could fulfil the important role of the “concierge/matchmaker”: the 
institutional front door for potential community partners, or a business development office for 
community stakeholders. 
Translation is critical. There is a strong need for someone who can way-find and navigate both 
systems to find the right fit & the right funder.  This is currently a missing piece that is needed to 
bridge the relational system space as outlined by Goodchild (2020) The characteristics of these 
sacred space stakeholders would need to be moderately fluent in the languages and cultures of 
each system to which they are connected, feeling a level of affinity for each system, and sincerely 
caring about the best interest of each. The level to which they may identify personally with one 
system over the other varies, and ought to.  Within post-secondary workforces today, there are 
fragments of these people or intrapreneurs dispersed across large complex institutions. Their 
offices or titles include terms like: community engagement, civic engagement, social impact, social 
innovation, social entrepreneurship, social justice, equity, diversity and inclusion, reconciliation, 
sustainability, procurement, research etc; The challenge is making those fragments visible and 
connected to one another within the institutions. 
Provide new tools, competencies and resources to design through the messy middle. There is 
opportunity for Ashoka Canada and/or other intermediary organizations to better bridge between 
sector actors and offer a ecosystemic value proposition to navigate system complexities. 
Conclusion 
Based upon the outcomes and insights of the Fishbowls conducted during our connector workshop, 
post secondary institutions will need to explicitly acknowledge how the Typology of Instruments 
for Institutional Engagement (Fig 1.) (Strandberg et al. 2017) affords a socio-economic position of 
privilege within Canadian communities. The inquiry of how to make these instruments accessible 
in place-based contexts, and the methodology to leverage them in a post secondary institution 
business case for accelerated social innovation, is a gap that needs to be considered within the call 
to action of 2017 white paper and subsequent 2020 follow-up report. 
 
In completing the connector workshop we were able to explore ‘how’ a community-organization 
(Ashoka Fellow) might access the Instruments for Institutional Engagement (Fig 1) of Research and 
Education within a Post-Secondary Institution (Ashoka Campus). Through the workshop’s Fishbowls 
we surfaced the question: What organizational self-awareness around the capacity of their strategic 
planning elements, as outlined in the Social Impact Pathway (Fig 4), are required by the Post-
Secondary institution to collectively explore, test and scale [new] higher and [inclusive] impact 
strategies with the privilege held in current political, economic and cultural system narratives? 
(Dioury, Varga-Toth, Strandberg et al., 2020)  
 
From here our key insights revealed a need for a ‘translator’ to bridge the relational or sacred space 
(Goodwin, 2020) between ecosystem actors to achieve the types of systems change exercises 
needed to build social infrastructure. These insights further confirmed these systems change 
exercises needed to be informed by a sense of place, co-designed and embassaged through trusting 
relationships with these ‘translators.’ These systemic translators should have the ability to visualize 
complex systems change scenarios, inspire post secondary champions to foster social impact 
capacity and field-build democratic convening within the sector. (Dioury, Varga-Toth, Strandberg et 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
130 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
al., 2020). These activities performed by the translator would require new democratic tools, 
flourishing capabilities, and culturally inclusive approaches that would enable “the future viability 
of human generations within groups associated by settlements, arts, religion and cosmological 
beliefs, and the continuity of knowledge practices.” (Jones, 2017). 
 
Ashoka Canada through its Changemaker Campus Designation framework requires institutions to 
establish a cross-cutting Change Team to build the capacity of the designated campus to maximize 
the capacities of its institution to build social infrastructure for Canadian communities with its 
students, staff, faculty and partners.  The connector workshop was a microcosm of the same 
relationship the Ashoka Fellow identified in building meaningful collaboration pathways with the 
Ashoka Campuses, as Campus Change Teams have in designing meaningful value co-creation to 
their institution's current Senior Leadership Teams and key institutional decision makers.   
 
Through the convivial approach (Illich and Lang, 1973) and tools of the Flourishing Business Model 
Canvas (Upward and Jones, 2015), (Hoveskog, Norris and Ostuzzi, 2020) and Flourishing Wayfind 
Cards (Norris, 2019) we are proposing that the Change Team identify as an  internal Business Model 
Innovation to the Firm. Using the tools and approach above, the goal would be to provide a model 
for Ashoka Campus Change Teams with the explicit structure that supports post secondary 
institutions to build the business case for an accelerated social impact field of practice and sector 
paradigm shift through solving complex issues in strongly sustainable or ‘flourishing’ ways. (Upward 
and Jones, 2015) 
Articulated as Changemaking As A Service - CaAS (Fig 13), we have conceptualized CaAS as a 
prototype of the Social Impact Pathway (Fig 4) mapped to the Flourishing Business Model lexicon, 
to help Change Teams articulate their value co-creation to the institution. Leveraging changemaking 
as a business model innovation in the service of solving complex problems across the institution 
itself, the Changemaking As A Service model, proposes to aid post secondary institutions with the 
capacity to convene system translators under a governance of do good to do well, unlocking more 
of their assets for the greater good, and accelerating further progress towards flourishing 
communities, cultures and economies. (Dioury, Varga-Toth, Strandberg et al., 2020) 
 
Figure 13 - A conceptualization of the Social Impact Pathway mapped in a Changemaking As A 
Service Postsecondary Institutional Business Model Innovation. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
131 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
References 
 
Dioury, Varga-Toth, Strandberg et al., (2020). A Milestone Report & Three Year Retrospective Review 
Maximizing Social Impact in Canadian Post-Secondary [White Paper]. JW McConnell Family 
Foundation. 
https://re-code.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Social-Infrastructure-2020-
Milestone-Report.pdf 
Geels, F. W., & Schot, J. (2007). Typology of sociotechnical transition pathways. Research policy, 36(3), 399-
417. 
Goodchild, M. (2021). Relational Systems Thinking: That's How Change is Going to Come, From Our Earth 
Mother. Journal of Awareness-Based Systems Change, 1(1), 75-103. 
Hoveskog, M., Norris, N., Ostuzzi, F. (2020 July 1-2). Improving the Flourishing Business Canvas through 
Design. Experiments in Belgium, Sweden and Canada [Conference presentation abstract] 5th 
International Online Conference on New Business Models, Nijmengen, The Netherlands. 
Illich, I., & Lang, A. (1973). Tools for conviviality. 
Jones, P. (2017). Social ecologies of flourishing: Designing conditions that sustain culture. In Design for a 
Sustainable Culture (pp. 38-54). Routledge. 
Kimball, L. (2012). Liberating structures: A new pattern language for engagement. Systems Thinker, 23(1), 2-
6. 
Lipmanowicz, H., & McCandless, K. (2013). The surprising power of liberating structures: Simple rules to 
unleash a culture of innovation. Seattle, WA: Liberating Structures Press. 
Meadows, D. H. (2008). Thinking in systems: A primer. chelsea green publishing. 
Norris, N. (2019). Flourishing Trim tabs Designing business models that catalyze strongly sustainable 
enterprises: An exploration of Design variety using tools for collaborative modelling modes. 
Richards, R. and Valentine, S. J (2021, Oct 25). Schools Can Change, But Only When Leaders Learn How to 
Listen. Ed Surge. https://www.edsurge.com/news/2021-10-25-schools-can-change-but-only-when-
leaders-learn-how-to-listen 
Sharpe, B. (2015). Three Horizons: the patterning of hope. Journal of Holistic Healthcare, 12(1). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
132 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Strandberg, C. (2017). Maximizing the capacities of advanced education institutions to build social 
infrastructure for Canadian communities [White Paper]. JW McConnell Family Foundation. 
https://mcconnellfoundation.ca/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/Maximizing-Capacities-of-
Advanced-Education-Institutions-to-Build-Social-Infrastructure.pdf 
Upward, A., & Jones, P. (2016). An ontology for strongly sustainable business models: Defining an enterprise 
framework compatible with natural and social science. Organization & Environment, 29(1), 97-123. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
133 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
 
Actors‘ Values and Interests in 
Sustainability-Oriented Ecosystems 
Work in Progress 
Karolina Bähr1,* 
1Research Assistant and Doctoral Candidate at the Chair of Innovation 
Management; Faculty of Social Sciences, Economics and Business 
Administration; University of Bamberg 
*Karolina.Baehr@uni-bamberg.de  
Abstract 
Sustainability-oriented ecosystems help to address grand challenges. Surprisingly, actors’ interests 
and values are mostly missing. Therefore, the research question is how do interests/values 
influence sustainability-oriented ecosystems. An embedded case-study design is applied. The 
findings may show how actors reflect on their interests/values and share them with others. 
Comparing actors’ behavior in situations with (in-)congruence of interests/values will provide new 
insights. 
Keywords  
Ecosystem, Interests, Values, Sustainability, Waste 
Introduction 
“Morale purpose can be a fertile source of innovation in business” (Damon, 2004, p. 8). 
Businesses and society become increasingly aware that the world faces complex problems that 
need complex solutions that single actors will hardly accomplish alone (George et al., 2016; Nylund, 
Brem & Agarwal, 2021; Snihur & Bocken, 2022). Ecosystems are an essential upcoming research 
field of digital technology-enabled change that transcends firm and industrial borders (Rindfleisch 
et al., 2020). Notably, the “study of sustainability in innovation ecosystems is still in its infancy, and 
much more work is expected in this field” (Nylund, Brem & Agarwal, 2021, p. 33). Waste is a 
problem that causes various adverse effects on people and the planet, and Sustainable 
Development Goals 11 and 12 refer to waste. Hence, waste is a recurring topic in public discourse. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
134 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The latest examples are the ban on disposable products such as plastic straws in the European 
Union, the growing awareness regarding microplastics polluting the sea, or China's ban on plastic 
waste imports. Circular economy questions society’s perceptions of waste and spreads the idea to 
reframe waste as a resource (Geissdoerfer et al., 2017; Neumeyer, Ashton & Dentchev, 2020). 
These changes in context and perceptions of sustainability enable new business models and related 
ecosystems that apply technologies in innovative ways to contribute to sustainability. 
One central and characteristic assumption of ecosystem thinking is that all participants of an 
ecosystem share a common goal, e.g., value creation, innovation, entrepreneurial activities (Moore, 
1996; Klimas & Czakon, 2022). Surprisingly, ecosystem actors’ interests and individual goals are 
mostly missing in previous research (Lappi, Haapasalo & Aaltonen, 2015). For example, Autio (2021) 
mentions ecosystem benefits as actors’ expectations regarding exchanges or compensations for 
contributing to the ecosystem. Anyway, he neither discusses benefits in detail nor considers them 
in the multi-layered ecosystem orchestration framework (Autio, 2021). This framework 
differentiates between four different layers of ecosystem orchestration (technological, economic, 
institutional, and behavioral). However, even the institutional layer of ecosystem orchestration that 
defines roles, resolves conflicts, and seeks a favorable regulation entails no deeper discussion of 
the individual perspective (Autio, 2021). 
Additionally, also the work of Schreieck, Wiesche and Krcmar (2021), which deepens the 
understanding of relationship-centric activities in ecosystems, remains silent on the topic of 
individual interests or personal values. Therefore, related perspectives on the impact of interests 
and values may enrich ecosystem thinking. Indeed, future research should look at value (in-) 
congruence in stakeholder relationships (Bundy, Vogel & Zachary, 2018) and investigate the 
“jointness of interests and values” (Kujula et al., 2022). Similarly, Freeman et al. (2010) called for 
future research on shared values and interaction effects of stakeholders regarding “the jointness 
of stakeholder interests” (p. 288). Mainly to create win-win solutions in sustainability-oriented 
ecosystems, it seems promising to deepen understanding of the role of actors’ interests and values. 
Therefore, this study’s research question is how values and interests influence the evolution of 
sustainability-oriented ecosystems. 
The remainder of this short paper is organized as follows. First, ecosystems and relationship-centric 
activities such as orchestration and evangelism are introduced. Subsequently, stakeholder theory 
informs arguments on the stakes and interests of actors. Afterward, values are presented as a 
distinct theoretical concept. The literature discussion concludes with the consideration of the first 
pioneering works that address interests and values in ecosystems. Second, the study’s methods are 
described. Third, the expected contributions of this work in progress are briefly outlined. 
Literature on interests and values in ecosystems 
One well-established perspective on collaborating actors contributing to joint value creation is 
ecosystems (Adner, 2017; Jacobides, Cennamo & Gawer, 2018; Autio & Thomas, 2020; Bacon, 
Williams & Davies, 2020). In general, an ecosystem is an emergent structure with multiple actors 
coordinating their activities to co-create value that includes complex complementarities (Adner, 
2017; Bacon, Williams & Davies, 2020). Research on business ecosystems has started in the 90ies 
with the seminal works of Moore (1993, 1996). Moore introduced the idea of actors collaborating 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
135 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
across industry borders to create innovation and predicted that future competition would occur at 
the level of business ecosystems. In business ecosystem research, the dominant focus has been 
either on the coordinated value creation of different actors like suppliers, complementors, and 
customers (Frow, McColl-Kennedy & Payne, 2016; Dedehayir, Mäkinen & Ortt, 2018; Kapoor, 2018) 
or ecosystem roles such as orchestrators (Lingens, Böger & Gassmann, 2021; Lingens, Huber & 
Gassmann, 2021), leaders (Moore, 1993), and focal firms (Adner, 2017). The first research stream 
focuses on value creation activities and the resulting strategies of the different actors. The second 
research stream concentrates on capabilities regarding the management of ecosystem structure 
and ecosystem evolution. 
In general, some form of relationship management emerges in an ecosystem. The capabilities 
concerning relationships are developing because of complex contribution patterns (Schreieck, 
Wiesche & Krcmar, 2021). Orchestration in business ecosystems is “a distinctive governance 
challenge that largely arises from the absence of formal 1-to-1 contracts to define relationships 
among ecosystem participants and their reliance on the voluntarily created inputs by hierarchically 
independent participants for the co-production of ecosystem-level value offering and for the 
facilitation of ecosystem benefits” (Autio, 2021, p. 6). Orchestrators can be large established firms 
or startups (Lingens, Böger & Gassmann, 2021), and even several ecosystem actors can share 
orchestration tasks (Lingens, Huber & Gassmann, 2021). The central mission of orchestration is 
building and maintaining relationships between ecosystem actors to enable value co-creation. This 
idea of orchestration entails the individual benefits the different actors of an ecosystem get for 
their contribution (Autio, 2021). Another activity regarding relationships in ecosystems is 
ecosystem evangelism, with the goal “to create a joint vision for the platform ecosystem to 
incentivize third-party contributions” (Schreieck, Wiesche & Krcmar, 2021, p. 380). According to 
Schreieck, Wiesche and Krcmar (2021), evangelism in ecosystems manifests as creating a joint 
vision, a unifying brand image that entails openness, and convincing known actors of ecosystem 
participation. In the following, I will argue that another relationship-focused activity in ecosystems 
dealing with individual interests and values represents a helpful supplement for sustainability-
oriented ecosystems. 
In stakeholder theory, stakes and interests are central but often implicit topics. In this theory, value 
creation takes place for all stakeholders, and multiple relationships between actors that have a 
stake in the same activities are the basis of any enterprise (Freeman et al., 2010). Having a stake in 
activities means the actor can gain or lose through the business activities of the ecosystem. For 
example, Freeman et al. (2010) mention the financial stakes of owners and investors, jobs and 
livelihood of employees, or resources for products and services of customers and suppliers. 
Stakeholder theory claims that the stakes of different stakeholder groups show diverse facets and 
connections to each other (Freeman et al., 2010; Freeman, 2017). Stakeholder interests result from 
what is at stake for the respective group or the individual (Sturdivant, 1979; Miles, 2017). 
Sometimes interest, stake, claim, or risk are used as synonyms (Miles 2017). 
In this realm, the jointness of stakeholder interests means actors establish a cooperation system 
because together, they can create value that none could create without the others (Freeman, 
2017). Freeman (2017) assumes that stakeholders neglecting the interests of other stakeholders to 
fulfill their interests will cause disruptions. Consequently, stakeholders with neglected interests will 
withhold their co-creation contributions or engage in a competing ecosystem. This assumption 
makes stakeholder interests an exciting concept to understand ecosystem evolution. Following 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
136 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Freeman’s (2017) assumption regarding the jointness of stakeholder interests, one would expect 
that ecosystems where interests are congruent could evolve. In contrast, ecosystems could 
stagnate or shrink when interests are not aligned. In these cases of neglected interests, actors may 
leave the ecosystem and look for another ecosystem where their interests are considered. Finally, 
these actors may mobilize like-minded allies and initiate a new ecosystem. 
Actors in ecosystems may perceive different things at stake depending on what is valuable to them 
or society. First, this contains individual preferences. Actors in the ecosystem may perceive specific 
things, ideas, or resources as valuable compared to other actors. Tsujimoto et al. (2018) introduce 
beliefs, decision-making principles, or priorities for such individual perceptions of value. Second, 
actors can also ascribe value to other entities like society or nature. This second aspect questions 
the behavioral assumption of self-interest (Freeman & Velamuri, 2006). For example, stakeholders 
can request businesses to implement responsible practices because they value responsibility. Such 
stakeholder interests may support system change towards sustainability (Freeman & Elms, 2018). 
For instance, DiVito and Ingen-Housz (2021) introduce an individual’s sustainability orientation as 
one aspect that fosters collective sustainability innovation and the emergence of sustainable 
entrepreneurial ecosystems. 
The idea that sustainable business activities entail a more explicit value consideration is broadly 
acknowledged, but the operationalization and implementation of different value perspectives are 
still contested (Dentchev et al., 2018). For instance, environmental values can refer to personal 
beliefs or informal institutions (in contrast to formal institutions like laws; Shepherd & Patzelt, 
2011). In value theory, values form the basis for understanding personal beliefs regarding 
environmental and social themes (De Groot & Steg, 2008). Values or beliefs describe what actors 
consider right or good (or respectively wrong or bad) independent from the specific situation 
(Schwartz, 1994). Schwartz (1994) explains that values can guide behavior because individuals 
perceive values as personal guiding principles or goals. According to value theory, individuals can 
develop values in two ways. First, they can adopt values from others through social interactions 
(socialization). This adoption happens with broadly accepted, i.e., so-called dominant, group values. 
Second, individuals can also question and change values because of unique personal experiences 
(Schwartz, 1994). 
Recently, studies began to consider values in ecosystem research, such as cultural values (Alba 
Ortuño and Dentchev, 2020) and sustainability orientation (DiVito & Ingen-Housz, 2021). Generally, 
individuals who show a sustainability orientation consider environmental protection, preservation, 
and social justice desirable and may become sustainable entrepreneurs (Kuckertz & Wagner, 2010; 
Shepherd & Patzelt, 2011; Calic & Mosakowski, 2016). Nylund, Brem and Agarwal (2021) argue, “an 
ecosystem can become more sustainable as the values of its participants coevolve” (p. 10). DiVito 
and Ingen-Housz (2021) observed differences between actors of sustainable ecosystems. First, 
actors representing for-profit firms could show a sustainability orientation, but this orientation 
caused complex challenges for the actors to integrate social, economic, and ecological perspectives. 
Second, actors of non-profit organizations with a sustainability orientation are motivated to change 
the institutional status quo.  
Stakeholder interests are an established research field (e.g., Freeman, 1984; Reynolds, Schultz & 
Hekman, 2006) and research on values from psychology may further inform stakeholder theoretical 
arguments (Johnson-Cramer et al., 2021). In addition, stakeholder research supports the positive 
impact of shared normative values on cooperation (Freeman and Velamuri, 2006) and firm 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
137 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
performance (Martin & Philipps, 2021). Finally, as sustainable innovations in ecosystems are 
expected to support the preservation and regeneration of natural and social resources (Snihur & 
Bocken, 2022), a deeper understanding of interests and values in sustainability-oriented 
ecosystems is instrumental in addressing the grand challenges. 
Methods 
As ecosystem emergence and evolution entails complex interdependencies between actors and the 
context dimension, an embedded case study is best to gain a detailed insight into the impact of 
values and interests (Gehman et al., 2018). Furthermore, an embedded case design allows 
combining strengths of single cases with advantages of multiple comparative cases. On the one 
hand, classic single cases concentrate on gaining deep insights into one organizational context, 
comparisons within this context, and telling a detailed and illustrative story to inform theory 
building (Dyer Jr & Wilkins, 1991). On the other hand, multiple case selection allows cross-case 
comparisons that show patterns and complementarities combined to form a more nuanced picture 
and inform strong theory building (Eisenhardt, 1991; Eisenhardt & Graebner, 2007).  
The cases of this study constitute actors in one ecosystem. All cases (ecosystem actors) share the 
same context but differ in their processes. The case selection follows the idea of theoretical 
sampling. However, theoretical sampling is not random; instead, case selection concentrates on 
finding cases that help understand constructs and their effects (interests and values) (Eisenhardt & 
Graebner, 2007). This study’s idea is to select actors that were part of the ecosystem simultaneously 
and faced similar initial conditions (e.g., societal developments). Eisenhardt (2021) characterizes 
this case selection strategy as “racing” and explains it is “in effect, a natural experiment which 
dovetails will with the recent interest in causal identification” (p. 150). 
The ecosystem chosen for analysis is labeled “waste as a resource”. The waste ecosystem seems 
especially fitting for this research purpose for several reasons. First, waste is one big challenge for 
society to become more sustainable, and well-known sustainability concepts like circular economy, 
recycling, and innovative materials affect this ecosystem (Neumeyer, Ashton & Dentchev, 2020). 
For example, the idea to reduce waste or recycle and reframe waste as resources questions 
established business logic in this context (Geissdoerfer et al., 2017). Second, the ecosystem consists 
of diverse actors such as for-profit business firms, municipal organizations, communities, 
households, etc. These various actor categories help rule out alternative explanations in light of 
theoretical sampling as they represent theoretical replication (Yin, 2018). The case selection follows 
no strict replication logic. However, these differences are essential to understanding the 
mechanisms inside the ecosystem. Third, the societal discourse on waste issues (like the ban on 
disposable products such as plastic straws and bags in the European Union, the pollution of the 
environment with microplastics, or China's ban on imports of plastic waste) may also raise the 
awareness for corresponding interests and values regarding the impact of waste on the 
environment.  
The data collection builds on interviews with ecosystem actors following the described sampling 
strategy and additional public available documents for triangulation (Yin, 2018). The interview 
guidelines apply general interview design principles (Rowley, 2012). Interviews will be recorded and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
138 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
transcribed. All available qualitative data form the basis for qualitative data analysis to create case 
descriptions and comparisons between the cases. 
Expected contribution 
The findings are expected to enrich our understanding of relationship-centric activities in 
sustainability-oriented ecosystems. First, actors may undertake activities to reflect on their 
interests/values and share them with others. Second, there may be situations with interest/value 
congruence and incongruence. Exploring actors’ behavior in these situations will provide fresh 
insights into the emergence and evolution of sustainability-oriented ecosystems and open up new 
opportunities for future research. 
Research on values and interests is still incomplete. Are all stakeholders aware of their values? Are 
actors in sustainable-oriented ecosystems guided by their values/interests? Or does classic profit 
logic dominate? How do actors communicate their interests and values to current and future 
collaboration partners? How do actors perceive the values and interests of others? Which behaviors 
in the ecosystem are influenced by values and interests – and how? This work in progress may spark 
exciting discussions on values and interests and their effects in sustainability-oriented ecosystems. 
The interviews will start in spring 2022; the first preliminary results are expected during the first 
half of 2022. 
References  
Adner, R. (2017) Ecosystem as structure: An actionable construct for strategy. Journal of Management. 43 
(1), 39-58. 
Alba Ortuño, C. & A. Dentchev, N. (2020) Cultural Distance in the Development of Supportive Entrepreneurial 
Ecosystems at the Bottom of the Pyramid. In: Academy of Management Global Proceedings, 
Advancing Management Research in Latin America, 15-17 April 2020, Mexico City, Mexico. IPADE 
Business School. p. 270. 
Autio, E. & Thomas, L. D. (2020) Value co-creation in ecosystems: Insights and research promise from three 
disciplinary perspectives. In: Nambisan, S., Lyytinen, K. & Yoo, Y. (eds) Handbook of Digital 
Innovation. Edward Elgar Publishing, pp. 107–132. 
Autio, E. (2021) Orchestrating ecosystems: a multi-layered framework. Innovation. 1-14. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1080/14479338.2021.1919120 [Accessed: 28th January 2022] 
Bacon, E., Williams, M. D. & Davies, G. (2020) Coopetition in innovation ecosystems: A comparative analysis 
of knowledge transfer configurations. Journal of Business Research. 115, 307-316. 
Bundy, J., Vogel, R. M. & Zachary, M. A. (2018) Organization–stakeholder fit: A dynamic theory of cooperation, 
compromise, and conflict between an organization and its stakeholders. Strategic Management 
Journal. 39 (2), 476-501. 
Calic, G. & Mosakowski, E. (2016) Kicking off social entrepreneurship: How a sustainability orientation 
influences crowdfunding success. Journal of Management Studies. 53 (5), 738-767. 
Damon, W. (2004) The moral advantage: How to succeed in business by doing the right thing. San Francisco, 
Berrett-Koehler Publishers. 
De Groot, J. I. & Steg, L. (2008) Value orientations to explain beliefs related to environmental significant 
behavior: How to measure egoistic, altruistic, and biospheric value orientations. Environment and 
Behavior. 40 (3), 330-354. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
139 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Dedehayir, O., Mäkinen, S. J. & Ortt, J. R. (2018) Roles during innovation ecosystem genesis: A literature 
review. Technological Forecasting and Social Change. 136, 18-29. 
Dentchev, N., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, R. ... & Jonker, J. (2018) 
Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field of research and a future 
research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production. 194, 695-703. 
DiVito, L. & Ingen-Housz, Z. (2021) From individual sustainability orientations to collective sustainability 
innovation and sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems. Small Business Economics. 56 (3), 1057-
1072. 
Dyer Jr, W. G. & Wilkins, A. L. (1991) Better stories, not better constructs, to generate better theory: A 
rejoinder to Eisenhardt. Academy of Management Review. 16 (3), 613-619. 
Eisenhardt, K. M. & Graebner, M. E. (2007) Theory building from cases: Opportunities and challenges. 
Academy of Management Journal. 50 (1), 25-32. 
Eisenhardt, K. M. (1991) Better stories and better constructs: The case for rigor and comparative logic. 
Academy of Management Review. 16 (3), 620-627. 
Eisenhardt, K. M. (2021) What is the Eisenhardt Method, really?. Strategic Organization. 19 (1), 147-160. 
Freeman, R. E. & Elms, H. (2018) The social responsibility of business is to create value for stakeholders. MIT 
Sloan Management Review, 4. Available from: https://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/the-social-
responsibility-of-business-is-to-create-value-for-stakeholders/ [Accessed 28th January 2022]. 
Freeman, R. E. & Velamuri, S. R. (2006) A new approach to CSR: Company stakeholder responsibility. In:  
Kakabadse, A. & Morsing, M. (eds) Corporate Social Responsibility. London, Palgrave Macmillan, pp. 
9-23 
Freeman, R. E. (1984) Strategic Management: A Stakeholder Approach. Boston, Pitman.  
Freeman, R. E., Harrison, J. S., Wicks, A. C., Parmar, B. L. & De Colle, S. (2010) Stakeholder theory: The state 
of the art. Cambridge, Cambridge University Press. 
Freeman, R.E. (2017) Five Challenges to Stakeholder Theory: A Report on Research in Progress. In: Wasieleski, 
D.M. & Weber, J. (eds.) Stakeholder Management. Bingley, UK, pp. 10-20. 
Frow, P., McColl-Kennedy, J. R. & Payne, A. (2016) Co-creation practices: Their role in shaping a health care 
ecosystem. Industrial Marketing Management. 56, 24-39. 
Gehman, J., Glaser, V. L., Eisenhardt, K. M., Gioia, D., Langley, A. & Corley, K. G. (2018) Finding theory–method 
fit: A comparison of three qualitative approaches to theory building. Journal of Management Inquiry. 
27 (3), 284-300. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M. & Hultink, E. J. (2017) The Circular Economy–A new sustainability 
paradigm?. Journal of Cleaner Production. 143, 757-768. 
George, G., Howard-Grenville, J., Joshi, A. & Tihanyi, L. (2016) Understanding and tackling societal grand 
challenges through management research. Academy of Management Journal. 59 (6), 1880-1895. 
Jacobides, M. G., Cennamo, C. & Gawer, A. (2018) Towards a theory of ecosystems. Strategic Management 
Journal. 39 (8), 2255-2276. 
Johnson-Cramer, M. E., Phillips, R. A., Fadlallah, H., Berman, S. L. & Elms, H. (2021) What We Talk About When 
We 
Talk 
About 
Stakeholders. 
Business 
& 
Society. 
1-53. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1177%2F00076503211053005 [Accessed 28th January 2022] 
Kapoor, R. (2018) Ecosystems: broadening the locus of value creation. Journal of Organization Design. 7 (1), 
1-16. 
Klimas, P. & Czakon, W. (2022) Species in the wild: a typology of innovation ecosystems. Review of Managerial 
Science. 16, 249–282. 
Kuckertz, A. & Wagner, M. (2010) The influence of sustainability orientation on entrepreneurial intentions—
Investigating the role of business experience. Journal of Business Venturing. 25 (5), 524-539. 
Kujala, J., Sachs, S., Leinonen, H., Heikkinen, A. & Laude, D. (2022) Stakeholder Engagement: Past, Present, 
and 
Future. 
Business 
& 
Society. 
1-61. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1177%2F00076503211066595 [Accessed 28th January 2022] 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
140 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Lappi, T., Haapasalo, H. & Aaltonen, K. (2015) Business Ecosystem Definition in Built Environment Using a 
Stakeholder Assessment Process. Management. 10 (2), 110-129. 
Lingens, B., Böger, M. & Gassmann, O. (2021) Even a Small Conductor Can Lead a Large Orchestra: How 
Startups Orchestrate Ecosystems. California Management Review. 63(3), 118-143. 
Lingens, B., Huber, F. & Gassmann, O. (2021) Loner or team player: How firms allocate orchestrator tasks 
amongst ecosystem actors. European Management Journal. 1-13. [In Press, Corrected Proof] 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2021.09.001 [Accessed 28th January 2022] 
Martin, K. & Phillips, R. (2021) Stakeholder Friction. Journal of Business Ethics. 1-13. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-020-04652-9 [Accessed 28th January 2022] 
Miles, S. (2017) Stakeholder theory classification: A theoretical and empirical evaluation of definitions. 
Journal of Business Ethics. 142 (3), 437-459. 
Moore, J. F. (1993) Predators and prey: a new ecology of competition. Harvard Business Review. 71 (3), 75-
86. 
Moore, J. F. (1996) The Death of Competition: Leadership and strategy in the age of business ecosystems. New 
York, HarperBusiness. 
Neumeyer, X., Ashton, W. S. & Dentchev, N. (2020) Addressing resource and waste management challenges 
imposed by COVID-19: An entrepreneurship perspective. Resources, Conservation and Recycling. 
162, 1-3. 
Nylund, P. A., Brem, A. & Agarwal, N. (2021) Innovation ecosystems for meeting sustainable development 
goals: The evolving roles of multinational enterprises. Journal of Cleaner Production. 281, 125329. 
Reynolds, S. J., Schultz, F. C. & Hekman, D. R. (2006) Stakeholder theory and managerial decision-making: 
Constraints and implications of balancing stakeholder interests. Journal of Business Ethics. 64 (3), 
285-301. 
Rindfleisch, A., Mehta, R., Sachdev, V. & Danienta, N. (2020) Innovation research themes for our changing 
environment: insights from the 2019 PDMA doctoral consortium. Journal of Product Innovation 
Management. 37 (2), 126-137. 
Rowley, J. (2012) Conducting research interviews. Management Research Review. 35 (3/4), 260–271. 
Schreieck, M., Wiesche, M. & Krcmar, H. (2021) Capabilities for Value Co-Creation and Value Capture in 
Emergent Platform Ecosystems: A Longitudinal Case Study of SAP’s Cloud Platform. Journal of 
Information Technology. 36 (4), 365-390. 
Schwartz, S. H. (1994) Are there universal aspects in the structure and contents of human values?. Journal of 
Social Issues. 50 (4), 19-45. 
Shepherd, D. A. & Patzelt, H. (2011) The new field of sustainable entrepreneurship: Studying entrepreneurial 
action linking “what is to be sustained” with “what is to be developed”. Entrepreneurship Theory and 
Practice. 35 (1), 137-163. 
Snihur, Y. & Bocken, N. (2022) A call for action: The impact of business model innovation on business 
ecosystems, society, and planet. Long Range Planning. [In Press Corrected Proof] Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2022.102182 [Accessed: 28th January 2022] 
Sturdivant, F. D. (1979) Executives and activists: Test of stakeholder management. California Management 
Review. 22 (1), 53-59. 
Tsujimoto, M., Kajikawa, Y., Tomita, J. & Matsumoto, Y. (2018) A review of the ecosystem concept—Towards 
coherent ecosystem design. Technological Forecasting and Social Change. 136, 49-58. 
Yin, R. K. (2018). Case study research and applications. Thousand Oaks, Sage. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
141 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Eco-retribution as a new tool to boost 
Circular Business Models 
experimentation and upscaling 
 
Rémi Beulque1,*, Helen Micheaux2 , Joël Ntsondé3,4,  
1ISC Paris; 2AgroParisTech; 3ISTEC; 4 Mines ParisTech 
*rbeulque@iscparis.com 
 
Abstract  
In this article, we describe how, in addition to their traditional eco-design tool, namely eco-
modulation, Producer Responsibility Organizations (PRO) can now rely on a new tool, called eco-
retribution, in order to create supportive business ecosystems that boost experimentation and 
scaling of circular business models in an efficient way. 
Key words 
Circular Business Models, Supportive business ecosystem, Extended Producer Responsibility, Eco-
modulation, eco-retribution 
  
Addressed problem and first elements of literature 
review 
In this article, we analyze how Producer Responsibility Organizations (PRO) involved in Extended 
Producer Responsibility (EPR) systems can create ecosystems that stimulate experimentation and 
scaling of circular business models in an efficient way. More specifically, we conduct a comparative 
analysis of two tools respectively called eco-modulation and eco-retribution. The former is the most 
common differentiating fees mechanism used by PROs to promote eco-design in various countries 
(Eunomia, 2020), while the latter is a new tool, which was developed and launched in 2021 by the 
French furniture PRO Eco-mobilier. Instead of focusing solely on product design, it specifically aims 
to scale up the circular business models of the actors that are part of the PRO’s ecosystem. 
The concept of EPR was introduced in Europe in the late 90’s (Lifset, 1993; Lindhqvist, 2000). It is 
based on the “polluter-pays” principle. The purpose is to internalize the cost of waste disposal into 
the cost of the product, theoretically meaning that the producers will improve the waste profile of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
142 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
their products, thus decreasing waste and increasing possibilities for reuse and recycling. Its 
significance and implementation have constantly evolved since then. To fulfill their responsibility, 
producers can either implement an individual system or join a collective organization. For 
economies of scale motives in collection and treatment activities, in most cases producers opted to 
share their responsibility by joining a Producer Responsibility Organization. PROs are collective 
organizations that play a major role in the implementation and management of EPR systems. 
Although their role has varied widely, one of their main traditional objectives is to create, 
coordinate and monitor on a day-to-day basis ecosystems of actors that will be able to achieve the 
specific waste collection, recycling and reuse targets set by law. EPR schemes have been 
increasingly used since the last decades, to the extent that they have become a key policy 
instrument at the European level (Micheaux et Aggeri, 2019 ; Micheaux, 2019).  
The traditional funding method for EPR schemes is a fee paid by consumers when they purchase 
new products to cover the costs of end-of-life treatment. In collective systems, this fee is collected 
by manufacturers and retailers and transferred to the PRO. With these funds, the PRO can 
compensate stakeholders for their collection, sorting, preparation for reuse or recycling services. 
Eco-design of products, which aims to improve their environmental impact and facilitate their reuse 
or recycling, is a fundamental objective of the EPR system (Laubinger et al., 2021). To achieve this 
objective, some EPRs in some countries differentiate fees according to eco-design criteria 
(Eunomia, 2020). In France, this mechanism is called eco-modulation. Products that meet specific 
eco-design criteria benefit from a reduced fee, thereby reducing the financial burden on the 
manufacturers and retailers involved (Micheaux et Aggeri, 2021). 
Nonetheless, while focused on waste management activities, EPR schemes have been criticized for 
their lack of incentive to change manufacturers’ product design (Tojo, 2004; Walls, 2006; Van 
Rossem, 2008; Mayers et al., 2013) and business models, and the efficiency of the eco-modulation 
mechanism has been debated (Micheaux et Aggeri, 2021). Related administrative burdens have 
been highlighted as a critical point (Laubinger, 2021). 
In response to these debates, the French furniture PRO Eco-mobilier launched in 2021 a new tool 
called eco-retribution, as an alternative way to modulate fees (Eco-mobilier, 2021). As an 
organization in charge of building a supportive business ecosystem for furniture circularity, its goal 
was to experiment a new tool to try to be more effective in scaling up circular business models 
based on recycling activities.  
It represents a triple paradigm shift for PROs. First, PROs usually have a product-based approach 
targeting eco-design through the modulation of fees, instead of business model and organizational 
approaches. Second, its main objective is to encourage economic actors by transferring the 
administrative burden to the PRO. Third, this new eco-retribution mechanism incentivizes the 
manufacturers and the retailers who use recycled materials, by proposing them a credit on the fee 
that they pay to Eco-mobilier for each ton of material bought, with the explicit goal to make 
recycled material producers’ business models more competitive compared to their virgin material 
competitors. Historically, PROs focused on the previous linkages of recycling value chains, namely 
collection, massification and sorting, and not recycled material production and use (Aggeri et al., 
2019). Nonetheless, increasing the use of recycled materials at the ecosystem level is an essential 
condition for scaling up the corresponding circular business models (Beulque et al., 2018).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
143 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 1: Linkages of recycling value chains (Aggeri et al., 2019) 
 
In this article, we carry out an empirical comparative study of these two mechanisms.  
By doing so, we aim at participating in key research paths of the literature on both circular business 
models and Extended Producer Responsibility to shed light on the organizational conditions and 
policy instruments required to set up ecosystems that drive producers to implement circular 
business models (Dentchev et al., 2018; Laukkanen & Patala, 2014; Evans et al., 2017; Peña-Vinces 
et al., 2021; Tsagarakis et al., 2021). There is an extensive literature on EPR systems that seeks to 
evaluate their effectiveness in order to improve their performance. Debates are essentially about 
the lack of incentive for eco-design in a collective model (Tojo, 2004; Walls, 2006; Van Rossem, 
2008; Mayers et al., 2013). In this sense, some authors have proposed individualized cost allocation 
mechanisms based on mathematical models (Mayers et al. 2013; Pires et al. 2015). However, the 
matter lacks empirical studies. Other research deals with the tension between recyclability and 
waste prevention objectives (Huang et al. 2019) or the effect of competition between PROs. By 
discussing two mechanisms, one new and one tested for more than a decade in France, we provide 
key insights about how to promote eco-design and stimulate circularity business models in 
Extended Producer Responsibility collective schemes that lack incentives.  
From an empirical perspective, this debate has a key importance for practitioners and policy makers 
(Laubinger, 2021). As evoked, Extended Producer Responsibility is increasingly used as an 
environmental policy instrument and since 2018, the revised version of the Waste Framework 
Directive (2018/851) includes fee modulation amongst the general minimum requirements of any 
EPR scheme. This topic has been much debated during the consultation process launched by the 
European Commission (European Commission, 2020). 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
144 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Methodological approach 
From a methodological perspective, we base our work on two longitudinal case studies carried out 
with two French PROs. The first one is Eco-mobilier and deals with waste produced by the furniture 
sector, and the other one is ecosystem, which is responsible for the EEE (Electronic and Electrical 
Equipment) sector in France. 
We have chosen to conduct a longitudinal analysis as it is well adapted for case studies, allowing us 
to explore “the contexts, content, and process of change together with their interconnections 
through time” (Pettigrew, 1990).  
Regarding Eco-mobilier, one of the authors carried out a four-year longitudinal action research in 
Eco-mobilier’s Innovation Department, with the mission to promote material recycling and End-of-
Life products reuse. One of his missions was to imagine new incentive mechanisms to promote 
related markets and business models. As such, he spent four years imagining, designing and 
implementing the eco-retribution scheme. As part of this process, he conducted 76 interviews and 
working sessions with key stakeholders. Another author has spent over five years studying 
ecosystem and the French model’s governance, carrying 68 interviews and participating in 
workshops with many stakeholders on major issues facing PROs, such as the modulation of 
producers’ fees. In parallel, the three authors undertook additional interviews with a set of key 
stakeholders.  
As advised by Howard-Grenville (2020), and in continuation of our previous work on circular 
business models, we adopt a multilevel perspective that combines analysis of system and 
organizational levels.  
Amongst the key stakeholders that have been interviewed, the authors exchanged with several 
firms that are members of PROs and launched eco-design initiatives in order to understand the 
effects of the eco-modulation mechanism (Micheaux et Aggeri, 2021). Indeed, both eco-modulation 
and eco-retribution are ecosystem level tools, since they are implemented by all the firms of a given 
country that belong to the sector under an EPR scheme and that they can impact all the recyclers 
of the related industries. 
However, these mechanisms need also to be analyzed at an organizational level. As a matter of fact, 
they are implemented by the PRO itself, as well as by the recyclers, manufacturers and retailers 
who are members of the scheme. At this level, we proceed to a thorough study of how these two 
mechanisms are concretely implemented in firms, through organizational processes and data 
management systems that impacts several of their departments.  
First results 
In this section, we highlight the key differences between eco-modulation and eco-retribution.  
First, as evoked, these mechanisms do not target the same objects. Eco-modulation aims at 
improving product eco-design. On the other hand, eco-retribution aims at increasing recycled 
materials use by manufacturers and retailers. In doing so, it seeks to increase the size of the market 
for recycled materials in order to stimulate the growth of secondary material producers' sales, 
allowing them to expand their business models. In this optic, eco-retribution provides a financial 
incentive to manufacturers and retailers for each ton of recycled materials that they buy. As such, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
145 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
as implemented by Eco-mobilier, for each ton of recycled polyurethane that a producer would use 
in a mattress, he would receive 50 €. 
The second key difference relates to the organizational implications of these two mechanisms. 
Therefore, in this section, we also describe the organizational challenges that hamper the efficiency 
of eco-modulation as a tool that can boost eco-design in an efficient way, and the organizational 
characteristics that make eco-retribution attractive to manufacturers and retailers.  
Fees are an additional price paid by customers to manufacturers and retailers when they buy 
products and they are used to finance the end of life of the products. Within each given EPR scheme, 
different families of products are identified by specific codes, which are created by the PRO and are 
composed of a dozen digits. Each manufacturer, a member of the EPR scheme, needs to associate 
these codes to each of its products and components, and to the different internal codes that 
enables him to identify them, within its design, manufacturing, sales data management systems. 
Inside each firm, a single component – or product – has different codes in each data management 
system. The same operations must be carried out at the level of the retailers' management systems.  
As a result, changes in a PRO's eco-modulation policy are generally not welcomed by its members, 
if not opposed altogether. Indeed, it causes an extensive recodification work, which is considered 
to be a costly and time-consuming administrative burden. This characteristic often leads PRO teams 
to abandon proposed changes, since these changes must be validated not only by their board of 
directors, but also by their administration council, which is composed of the country’s major 
manufacturers and retailers.  
It is on the basis of this analysis that the eco-retribution was proposed, with the main objective of 
creating a tool in which traceability would not be ensured by manufacturers and retailers, but 
directly by the PRO, as a collective organization in charge of creating and managing the whole 
ecosystem.  
As evoked, in this mechanism, manufacturers and retailers receive financial assistance based on the 
number of tons of recycled materials they buy. Therefore, they have very limited information to 
provide in order to identify their suppliers, and the quantities they have bought over a given period 
of time. The last additional information to know is the percentage of recycled material that is 
contained in the material that they bought from each of their suppliers.  
In this section, we will highlight how, thanks to their collective nature, PROs are in a key position to 
create this knowledge and control its veracity. Indeed, through the collection network that they 
monitor, they know the amount of End-of-Life products collected in a given country. One of their 
missions is to recycle the materials that compose them thanks to a network of recyclers. Therefore, 
they also know the amount of sorted materials that are sold by these actors to the producers of 
recycled materials.  
Nonetheless, if eco-retribution appears to be able to alleviate manufacturers and retailers’ 
administrative burden, its implementation raises other traceability and confidentiality challenges. 
In this section, we will describe them thoroughly.  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
146 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Preliminary conclusions 
In this article, we contribute to key research paths of the literature on both circular business 
models, business ecosystems and Extended Producer Responsibility. This is especially the case 
regarding the role of public actors in the design of policy instruments supporting the development 
and diffusion of sustainable business models (Dentchev et al., 2018; Laukkanen & Patala, 2014; 
Evans et al., 2017). 
At first, we will enhance the current comprehension of the organizational challenges that hamper 
eco-modulation’s effectiveness as a tool that is designed to promote eco-design. We also identify 
eco-retribution as a new mechanism to boost experimentation and scaling up of circular business 
models based on recycling activity, and as a complementary tool to eco-modulation in order to 
stimulate eco-design and increase circularity in EPR schemes.  
Nonetheless, our work still faces limits at its current stage. Indeed, more time is needed for 
definitive conclusions, since eco-retribution was only launched in 2021. Moreover, this mechanism 
has initially been launched primarily to boost circular business models based on recycling activities, 
which is the last strategy according to the waste management hierarchy. Therefore, its ability to 
promote other circular targets and business models (reuse, eco-design, product as a service, etc.) 
still remains to be proved.  
Summary 
In this article, we analyze how Producer Responsibility Organizations (PROs) can create ecosystems 
that stimulate experimentation and scaling of circular business models in an efficient way 
(Dentchev et al., 2018). More specifically, based on the two case studies of the French PRO 
ecosystem and Eco-mobilier, we conduct a comparative analysis of two tools respectively called 
eco-modulation and eco-retribution.  
The former is the most common one. However, its efficiency has been debated and its 
administrative complexity pointed out (Mayers et al., 2013; Laubinger, 2021). As a response, the 
latter was proposed in 2021 by the French furniture PRO Eco-mobilier. Its main objective is to create 
a tool in which traceability related administrative work would not be ensured by manufacturers and 
retailers, but directly by the PRO, as a collective organization in charge of creating and managing 
the whole ecosystem. Instead of product design, it specifically targets to scale up the circular 
business models of the actors of the ecosystem. 
Through this article, we contribute to key research paths of the literature on circular business 
models, business ecosystems and Extended Producer Responsibility. At first, we enhance the 
current comprehension of the organizational challenges that hamper eco-modulation’s 
effectiveness as a tool that is designed to promote eco-design. We also identify eco-retribution as 
a new mechanism to boost experimentation and scaling up of the circular business models, and as 
a complementary tool to eco-modulation in order to stimulate eco-design and increase circularity 
in EPR schemes.  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
147 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
References 
Aggeri, F., Beulque, R., & Micheaux, H. (2019) Mettre en place une démarche d’économie circulaire. Mines 
ParisTech-PSL Research University-Centre de Gestion Scientifique, Rapport de Recherche. 
Beulque, R., Aggeri, F., Abraham, F., & Morel, S. (2018) Business models circulaires : vers une création et 
captation de valeur pérenne ? Les enseignements du recyclage et de la réutilisation automobiles. 
Finance Contrôle Stratégie, (NS-1). Available from: https://journals.openedition.org/fcs/2081 
[Accessed 15th January 2022]. 
Dentchev, N., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, R., & Jonker, J. (2018) 
Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field of research and a future 
research 
agenda. 
Journal 
of 
cleaner 
production, 
194, 
695-703. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0959652618314963 
[Accessed 
15th 
January 2022]. 
Eco-mobilier (2021) Comment bénéficier des crédits d’éco-participation ? Available from: https://espace-
services.eco-mobilier.fr/service/comment-beneficier-des-credits-deco-participation [Accessed 22nd 
January 2022]. 
Eunomia 2020. Study to support preparation of the Commission’s Guidance of Extended Producer 
Responsibility schemes. Final Report for the DG Environment of the European Commission. URL: 
https://op.europa.eu/fr/publication-detail/-/publication/08a892b7-9330-11ea-aac4-
01aa75ed71a1/language-en 
European Commission, Hogg, D., Jones, P., Papineschi, J., et al., (2020) Study to support preparation of the 
Commission’s guidance for extended producer responsibility scheme : recommendations for 
guidance, Publications Office. Available from: https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2779/301067 
[Accessed 24th January 2022]. 
European Commission (2018) Directive (UE) 2018/851 du Parlement européen et du Conseil du 30 mai 2018 
modifiant la directive 2008/98/CE relative aux déchets (Texte présentant de l'intérêt pour l'EEE) 
European Commission, Hogg, D., Jones, P., Papineschi, J., et al., (2020) Study to support preparation of the 
Commission’s guidance for extended producer responsibility scheme: recommendations for 
guidance, Publications Office. Available from: https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2779/301067 
[Accessed 24th January 2022]. 
European Commission (2018) Directive (UE) 2018/851 du Parlement européen et du Conseil du 30 mai 2018 
modifiant la directive 2008/98/CE relative aux déchets (Texte présentant de l'intérêt pour l'EEE) 
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Van Fossen, K., Yang, M., Silva, E. A., & Barlow, C. Y. (2017). Business 
model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for creation of sustainable 
business models. Business Strategy and the Environment, 26(5), 597-608. Available from: 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/bse.1939 [Accessed 15th January 2022]. 
Howard‐Grenville, J. (2020) Grand Challenges, Covid‐19 and the Future of Organizational Scholarship. Journal 
of Management Studies. Available from: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/joms.12647 
[Accessed 15th January 2021]. 
Huang, X., Atasu, A., & Toktay, L. B., 2019. Design implications of extended producer responsibility for durable 
products. Management Science, 65(6), 2573-2590. 
Laubinger, F., et al. (2021) Modulated fees for Extended Producer Responsibility schemes (EPR) », OECD 
Environment 
Working 
Papers, 
n° 
184, 
Éditions 
OCDE, 
Paris, 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1787/2a42f54b-en[Accessed 23rd January 2021]. 
Laukkanen, M., & Patala, S. (2014). Analysing barriers to sustainable business model innovations: Innovation 
systems approach. International Journal of Innovation Management, 18(06), 1440010. 
Lifset, R.J., 1993. Take it back: extended producer responsibility as a form of incentive-based environmental 
policy. J. Resour. Manage. Technol. 21(4), 163-175. 
Lindhqvist, T. (2000) Extended producer responsability in cleaner production policy principle to promote 
environmental improvements of product systems. The International Institute for Industrial 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
148 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Environmental Economics. Lund University.  
Mayers, K., Lifset, R., Bodenhoefer, K., Wassenhove, L.N., (2013) Implementing individual producer 
responsibility for waste electrical and electronic equipment through improved financing. J. Ind. Ecol. 
17 
(2), 
186e198. 
Available from: 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1530-
9290.2012.00528.x [Accessed 11th January 2022]. 
Micheaux, H., & Aggeri, F. (2021) Eco-modulation as a driver for eco-design: A dynamic view of the French 
collective 
EPR 
scheme. Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 289, 
125714. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0959652620357607?via%3Dihub 
[Accessed 13th January 2022]. 
Micheaux, H. & Aggeri, F. (2019) Le déchet comme potentiel commun : vers une nouvelle forme de 
gouvernance de l’environnement. Annales des Mines - Gérer et comprendre, 137, 3-15. 
https://doi.org/10.3917/geco1.137.0003 [Accessed 4th January 2022]. 
Micheaux, H. (2019) Responsabiliser pour transformer : des déchets aux mines urbaines. Paris, Presses des 
Mines. 
Peña-Vinces, J, Ferreira, J., Dabić, M., & Gonzalez-Perez, M.A., (2021) Call for Papers: Circular Business Models 
and Sustainability Strategies. Environment, Development and Sustainability, Available from: 
https://www.springer.com/journal/10668/updates/19265132 [Accessed 13th January 2022]. 
Pettigrew, A.M., (1990) Longitudinal field research on change: theory and practice. Organ. Sci. 1 (3), 267e292. 
Available from: https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/orsc.1.3.267 [Accessed 25th 
January 2022]. 
Pires, Ana, Martinho, Graça, Ribeiro, Rita, Mota, Mafalda, Teixeira, Luìs, 2015. Extended producer 
responsibility: a differential fee model for promoting sus- tainable packaging. J. Clean. Prod. 108, 
343e353.  
Tojo, N., (2004) Extended reducer responsibility as a driver for design change: utopia or reality? Ph.D. 
dissertation. International Institute for Industrial Environ- mental Economics. Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden.  
Tsagarakis, K., D’Amado, I., Smol, M., Grigoroudis, E. (2021) Special Issue on Circular Economy as a Driver for 
Achieving Sustainable Production and Consumption. Sustainable Production and Consumption. 
Available from: https://www.journals.elsevier.com/sustainable-production-and-consumption/call-
for-papers/special-issue-on-circular-economy-as-a-driver-for-achieving-sustainable-production-
and-consumption? [Accessed 13th January 2022]. 
Van Rossem, C. (2008) Individual Producer Responsibility in the WEEE Directive-From Theory to Practice?. 
Lund University. 
Walls, M., 2006. Extended producer responsibility and product design: economic theory and selected case 
studies. RFF Discussion Paper No. 06e08, Available at: SSRN. https://ssrn.com/abstract1⁄4901661. 
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.901661 [Accessed 25th January 2022]. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
149 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Circular Economy Ecosystem 
Coordination 
A comparative study of two sectoral cases 
Lori DiVito1 *, Rob Lubberink1  
1Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences 
* l.e.d.divito@hva.nl  
Abstract 
Circular solutions require a systemic approach involving multiple actors within and across industrial 
sectors. This has implications for the structure and dynamics within geographically bounded 
entrepreneurial ecosystems. Actors within the entrepreneurial ecosystem assume the role of 
‘system coordination’ but very little is known about this role. As circular solutions and 
transformations cannot be realized in isolation, a better understanding of this coordination role is 
pertinent, which actors perform it and the strategies they use to overcome challenges. We conduct 
a comparative study of two sectoral cases in the Netherlands. Our preliminary findings from the 
case on circular textiles shows that coordination is distributed among several and diverse 
ecosystem actors to close technical material flows, whereas our preliminary findings in agri-food 
show that coordination is concentrated among actors that explicitly assume the coordination role 
to close biological material flows. We intend to make novel contributions to the literature on 
circular economy business transformation and entrepreneurial ecosystems as well as provide 
insights on the system coordination role for policy makers and practitioners. 
Keywords  
Circular economy, entrepreneurial ecosystems, ecosystem coordination, circular startups 
Introduction  
The circular economy is increasingly becoming a top priority for many national and local 
governments. For example, the European Union has adopted The Green Deal, which aims to reduce 
carbon emissions and decouple growth from resource use (European Commission, 2021). Many 
European governments have also devised plans to transition from a linear take-make-dispose 
model to more circular and closed loop production and consumption systems. Among these, the 
Netherlands, Denmark, United Kingdom, to name a few examples, have initiated nationwide goals 
to achieve circularity in several key sectors by 2050. Additionally, recent legislation on extended 
producer responsibility, plastic and textile waste has been introduced in countries like Sweden, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
150 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
France, and the Netherlands (Vermeulen et al., 2021). Related to these developments, 
entrepreneurial action oriented towards the circular transition of key sectors, such as energy, food, 
and textiles, has grown. New ventures, termed circular startups (Henry et al., 2020), and 
incumbents alike have begun to experiment with technology and business models that transform 
linear business as usual to circular solutions and has sparked an emerging literature on the circular 
economy, circular business models, and circular strategies (Brown, Bocken & Balkende, 2019; 
Konietzko et al., 2020).  Scholars of the circular economy point to the systemic nature of circular 
solutions and innovations and posit that an ecosystem perspective is needed to advance our 
understanding of the circular economy (Kanda, Geissdoerfer & Hjelm, 2021).  
Entrepreneurial ecosystems are holistic systems that involve diverse actors in innovative and 
entrepreneurial activity. Defined as “a dynamic community of interdependent actors 
(entrepreneurs, suppliers, buyer, government, etc.) and system-level institutional, informational 
and socioeconomic contexts” (Audretsch & Belitski, 2017, p. 4), entrepreneurial ecosystems 
manifest on various levels (e.g. local, regional, national) and cross industrial and geographic 
boundaries. Entrepreneurial ecosystems consist of actors and mechanisms (such as accelerator 
programs, incubators, competitions) that encourage and support entrepreneurial action and 
realization of opportunities (Isenberg, 2010) and regional development and growth (Etzkowitz & 
Klofsten, 2005).  
Recent work has begun to incorporate sustainable-related entrepreneurship, the fourth wave of 
entrepreneurship research (Volkmann et al., 2021), into the concept of entrepreneurial 
ecosystems. Sustainable entrepreneurship is argued to differ in substantial ways from traditional 
entrepreneurship, where the role of societal activism, entrepreneurial motivations and collective 
outcomes influence the constellation of entrepreneurial ecosystems (Cohen, 2006; Mair & Marti, 
2006; Dean & McMullen, 2007; Autio et al., 2018). A sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem is 
defined by Cohen (2006, p.3) as “an interconnected group of actors in a local geographic community 
committed to sustainable development through the support and facilitation of new sustainable 
ventures.” The nascent and emerging work on sustainable entrepreneurship ecosystems (SEEs) 
highlights the interdependency of actors and co-evolution of opportunities (DiVito & Ingen-Housz, 
2021; O’Shea et al., 2021), contextual factors (Pankov, Velamuri & Schneckenberg, 2021) and 
outcomes (Wagner et al., 2021) of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems.  
Within the broader context of sustainable entrepreneurship, there is a growing interest in 
understanding circular innovations, circular business models and circular transitions. Circular 
strategies refer to ‘closing the loop’ whereby natural resources are reduced, reused, or 
regenerated. As such, the circular economy holds promise for addressing growing ecological 
devastation while at the same time offering sustainable entrepreneurial opportunities. However, 
entrepreneurial ventures focused on circular solutions cannot ‘close the loop’ in isolation. Prior 
work on circular business models and circular strategies argues that circular businesses and 
solutions are systemic and require coordinated efforts that involve multiple actors within and 
across industries and geographies (Kanda et al, 2020).  
We argue that entrepreneurs and actors pursuing circular opportunities need coordination 
mechanisms within the entrepreneurial ecosystem. There is scant knowledge about the role of 
system coordination in entrepreneurial ecosystems. For circular-oriented entrepreneurs, it is 
imperative that circular opportunities are not only identified in collaboration but also realized and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
151 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
maintained in long-term cooperative relations. In this regard, circular-oriented entrepreneurship 
differs from traditional and sustainable entrepreneurship; it raises questions about which 
ecosystem actors assume the role of coordination and the strategies they use to overcome 
challenges in coordinating diverse ecosystem actors. In the literature on entrepreneurial 
ecosystems to date, the role of ecosystem coordination is ambiguous and unclear.  We aim to 
contribute to this gap in the literature and bridge work on entrepreneurial ecosystems and circular 
entrepreneurship.  
We investigate circular entrepreneurship in two sectors – textiles and agri-food – uncovering the 
actors within the entrepreneurial ecosystems that coordinate entrepreneurial action towards 
realizing circular solutions, innovation, and industrial transformation. We gathered data from in-
depth interviews, field observations, and archival documentation over a two-year period. We 
comparatively analyze the role of entrepreneurial ecosystem coordination and highlight differences 
and similarities in how intermediaries facilitate interaction between new entrants and incumbent 
firms. We find that the coordination role is concentrated among key actors within the ecosystem. 
We develop a conceptual framework that illuminates the boundary conditions of the 
entrepreneurial ecosystem coordination role. We make important contributions to the sustainable 
entrepreneurial ecosystem and circular economy literatures. Our study also has important 
implications for circular-oriented entrepreneurs and policy makers in that it provides insights into 
mechanisms that support circular ventures, business models and industry transformations. 
Method  
We conducted an inductive, exploratory, multiple case study of two entrepreneurial ecosystems in 
the Netherlands that are experiencing growing momentum to transform from linear take-make-
dispose models to circular models that close resource loops. We draw on an engaged scholarship 
approach which allows for a closer examination and participation in the phenomenon being studied 
(van de Ven, 2007). The exploratory nature of our question and the scant knowledge about 
entrepreneurial ecosystem coordination and circular startups call for methods that allow for deeper 
insights and understanding of how events unfold over time (Langley et al., 2013).  
We focused our inductive study on two sectors in the Netherlands where extensive entrepreneurial 
activity in circular solutions and transformation is taking place, namely the textiles industry and the 
agri-food industry. These cases provide insights into distinct contexts. The Dutch textile industry is 
in the midst of a circular transition that involves many local, regional and international actors along 
the textile value chain. Several circular-oriented initiatives and startups have emerged in the 
entrepreneurial ecosystem. The textile case includes two embedded cases, one focused on a 
regional initiative and the other on an accelerator platform in Amsterdam that operates in an 
international context. The value chain actors include organizations such as the waste collectors and 
sorters, ecosystem support organizations, circular startups, and local policymakers.  
The agri-food industry is also in the middle of a circular transition since conventional agriculture 
requires many (artificial) inputs, has biological material leakage (e.g., high nitrogen emissions), and 
significantly impacts water levels and quality. Our agri-food case revolves around a Dutch 
organization that promotes the recovery of the Dutch peat meadow landscape through nature 
inclusive- and regenerative agribusiness supported by sustainable business models. They will 
coordinate this transformation from conventional agriculture to regenerative agriculture for 20 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
152 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
years (i.e., the minimum amount of time it takes for ecosystem to recover and to transform 
conventional agribusiness into a regenerative one). To achieve this system transformation, farmers 
act as innovative entrepreneurs, while the foundation functions as an accelerator, connector, and 
guide for the wider entrepreneurial ecosystem. By doing so, their coordination allows for the 
emergence of an entrepreneurial ecosystem that experiments with circular- and regenerative 
innovations, develops business cases for scaling these, and ultimately closes biological material 
flows. 
We use qualitative methods to gather data and are currently in the process of gathering field data. 
So far, we have conducted in-depth, semi-structured interviews with various actors in the 
entrepreneurial ecosystems, including founders, project managers and experts. We also gathered 
data from archival documentation such as news items, web sites, and reports to triangulate our 
data sources. All interviews are recorded and transcribed. As we proceeded with data collection, 
we analyze each interview for emerging insights and code our data using a coding scheme informed 
from previous literature. The process of data collection and analysis is integrative and iterative, 
where the analysis guides the subsequent data collection, refining and elaborating on emerging 
insights (Sinkovics & Alfoldi, 2012). We aim to complete our data collection and analysis in the 
spring of 2022. 
Preliminary findings  
Our initial and preliminary findings show that the role of system coordination is temporal, fluid, and 
distributed, moving between ecosystem actors that share coordination responsibility. We see that 
circular-oriented actors in entrepreneurial ecosystem coordination are interdependent, where the 
realization of circular opportunities is dependent on the long-term interaction and partnerships of 
constituent actors. Closed-loop circular solutions cannot be realized in isolation. Entrepreneurial 
ecosystem coordinators not only bring together actors to recognize circular opportunities, but they 
facilitate the long-term relations that are needed to realize fully circular transitions. We devise a 
framework that outlines the boundary conditions and characteristics of entrepreneurial ecosystem 
coordinators that are specifically focused on circular startups and transformations. Focusing 
specifically on circular-oriented actors in entrepreneurial ecosystems, we elucidate the role of 
coordination, which actors assume the role and the mechanisms used to facilitate coordination. We 
posit that entrepreneurial ecosystem coordination is a necessary condition for the realization of 
circular-oriented entrepreneurial opportunities and circular transformation of industries and 
countries. 
Expected Contributions 
Our study will make several important contributions to academic literature. First, we aim to 
contribute to the emerging literature on circular economy and circular economic systems (Kanda et 
al., 2021). Except for the study from Kanda and colleagues (2021), there are few empirical studies 
that use an ecosystem approach to understand circular transformations. In line with their study, 
our preliminary findings show that firm level circular entrepreneurship is dependent on system level 
integration. We will also contribute to the literature on entrepreneurial ecosystems and the nascent 
literature on sustainable entrepreneurial systems (Volkmann et al., 2021). As circular-oriented 
entrepreneurship is related to sustainable entrepreneurship and ecopreneurship, we extend our 
knowledge about how sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems support and facilitate actors 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
153 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
focused on circular entrepreneurial opportunities to overcome barriers (Tura et al., 2019). Our 
study will also have implications for practitioners and policymakers. For circular entrepreneurs, we 
provide practical insights and mechanisms about the support and coordination mechanisms 
available in ecosystems. Given that governments have placed a high priority on circular transitions, 
our findings will inform policymakers in devising schemes that support entrepreneurial ecosystem 
coordination to encourage and facilitate new entrants and incumbent firms to pursue circular 
innovations and solutions.  
References  
Audretsch, D. B., & Belitski, M. (2017). Entrepreneurial ecosystems in cities: establishing the framework 
conditions. The Journal of Technology Transfer. 
Autio, E., Nambisan, S., Thomas, L. D. W., & Wright, M. (2018). Digital affordances, spatial affordances, and 
the genesis of entrepreneurial ecosystems: Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal, 12(1), 72–95. 
Cohen, Boyd. (2006). Sustainable valley entrepreneurial ecosystems. Business Strategy and the Environment, 
15(1), 1–14. 
Dean, T. J., & McMullen, J. S. (2007). Toward a theory of sustainable entrepreneurship: Reducing 
environmental degradation through entrepreneurial action. Journal of Business Venturing, 22(1), 
50–76. 
Etzkowitz, H., & Klofsten, M. (2005). The innovating region: toward a theory of knowledge based regional 
development. R&D Management, (35, 3, 2005), 243–255. 
European Commission, 2021. Delivering the European Green Deal: The decisive decade. Available from: 
https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal/delivering-
european-green-deal_en. Accessed on 26 January 2022. 
Henry, M., Bauwens, T., Hekkert, M., & Kirchherr, J. (2020). A typology of circular start-ups: An Analysis of 
128 circular business models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 245, 118528. 
Isenberg, D. J. (2010). How to start an entrepreneurial revolution. Harvard Business Review, 88(6), 40–50. 
Kanda, W., Kuisma, M., Kivimaa, P., & Hjelm, O. (2020). Conceptualising the systemic activities of 
intermediaries in sustainability transitions. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, 36, 
449-465. 
Kanda, W., Geissdoerfer, M., & Hjelm, O. (2021) From circular business models to circular business 
ecosystems. Business Strategy and the Environment 30.6: 2814-2829. 
Langley, A., Smallman, C., Tsoukas, H., & Van de Ven, A. H. (2013). Process studies of change in organization 
and management: Unveiling temporality, activity, and flow. Academy of Management Journal, 56(1), 
1–13. 
Mair, J., & Marti, I. (2006). Social entrepreneurship research: A source of explanation, prediction, and delight. 
Journal of World Business, 41(1), 36–44. 
O’Shea, G., Farny, S., & Hakala, H. (2021). The buzz before business: A design science study of a sustainable 
entrepreneurial ecosystem. Small Business Economics, 56(3), 1097-1120. 
Pankov, S., Velamuri, V. K., & Schneckenberg, D. (2021). Towards sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems: 
examining the effect of contextual factors on sustainable entrepreneurial activities in the sharing 
economy. Small Business Economics, 56(3), 1073-1095. 
Sinkovics, R. R., & Alfoldi, E. A. (2012). Progressive focusing and trustworthiness in qualitative research. 
Management International Review, 52(6), 817-845. 
Tura, N., Hanski, J., Ahola, T., Ståhle, M., Piiparinen, S., & Valkokari, P. (2019). Unlocking circular business: A 
framework of barriers and drivers. Journal of Cleaner Production, 212, 90-98. 
van de Ven, A. H. (2007). Engaged scholarship: A guide for organizational and social research. Oxford 
University Press. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
154 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Vermeulen, W., Backes, C., de Munck, M., Campbell-Johnston, K., de Waal, I. M., Rosales Carreon, J., & Boeve, 
M. (2021). Pathways for Extended Producer Responsibility on the road to a Circular Economy. WHITE 
PAPER. 
Volkmann, C., Fichter, K., Klofsten, M., & Audretsch, D. B. (2021). Sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems: an 
emerging field of research. Small Business Economics, 56(3), 1047-1055. 
Wagner, M., Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. G., & Fichter, K. (2021). University-linked programmes for sustainable 
entrepreneurship and regional development: how and with what impact?. Small Business 
Economics, 56(3), 1141-1158. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
155 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Digital platforms as innovation 
catalysts for sustainable business 
model innovation 
The case study of “Too Good To Go” 
Paola De Bernardi1, Canio Forliano1,2,*, Salvatore Gnoffo2, 
Alberto Bertello1  
1Department of Management, University of Turin, Italy; 2Department of 
Political Science and International Relations, University of Palermo, 
Italy  
*canio.forliano@unipa.it  
Abstract 
In this work, the business model of “Too Good To Go” is analyzed through the lens of dynamic 
performance management, an approach that combines system dynamics and performance 
management principles. Thus, the circular causality behind how a digital platform can help 
transition towards a more sustainable economy is explored. 
Keywords 
sustainable business model, digital transformation, food waste, system dynamics, dynamic 
performance management 
Introduction 
Sustainability issues are increasingly asking to redesign modern economic systems, realizing a 
transition toward the sustainability paradigm (De Bernardi and Azucar, 2020). Since they control 
the majority of both resources and capabilities, companies are considered central actors to address 
these issues (Porter and Kramer, 2011) and “important and necessary social change agents” 
(Aguilera et al., 2007, p. 857). Therefore, reconceptualizing modern economic systems implies the 
redesign of business models around new ways of creating, delivering, and capturing value (Kjaer et 
al., 2019; Shams et al., 2021; Urbinati et al., 2017). Environmental goals can be achieved through 
maximizing material and energy efficiency, substituting with renewables and natural processes, and 
closing resource loops. Social-oriented goals, instead, can be achieved by leveraging functionality 
rather than ownership, adopting a stewardship role, and encouraging sufficiency. These goals can 
be achieved more easily by engaging a varied ecosystem of actors (Pieroni et al., 2019) who 
collaborate through vertical (collaboration with suppliers and consumers) or horizontal 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
156 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
partnerships (collaboration with universities and research centers) to develop new technologies 
and innovative solutions. Moreover, the ongoing transition towards a digitized society, further 
boosted by the COVID-19 pandemic (Bertello et al., 2021), is radically encouraging organizations to 
develop new products/services, redesign new processes, and disrupt their way of doing business, 
relying on participatory architectures and openness-based collaborations (Bertello et al., 2021; 
Forliano et al., 2020; Scheidgen et al., 2021). 
Against this background, digital platforms have become relevant to enable connections among 
people, organizations, and resources in order to enhance valuable interactions between different 
stakeholders (Gawer and Cusumano, 2014). Advancements in information technology, mobile 
technology, social media, and, more recently, the spread of cutting-edge IoT technologies have 
dramatically changed the ease and nature of information flows, making multi-stakeholder 
collaboration almost imperative (Bogers et al., 2018). However, the literature investigating digital 
platforms’ business model is still scarce and there is a need to shed light on what are the drivers 
that can ensure the sustainable growth of such businesses and their broader ecosystem (Bivona 
and Cosenz, 2021; Täuscher and Laudien, 2018). 
The call for engaging with multiple stakeholders when sustainability issues are at stake arises from 
the need to deal with complex issues that are characterized by non-linear dynamics and multiple 
criteria of worth (Ferraro et al., 2015). Therefore, through digital platforms, stakeholders can 
contribute to sustainable business models rather than being exclusively affected by them. They can 
thus contribute to extending the resource and the product value (Bocken et al., 2016) through 
experimentation and learning processes aimed at combining sustainability solutions at the level of 
firms’ business models with system-wide change (Velter et al., 2020). Investigating the case of “Too 
Good To Go” (TGTG), a digital platform fighting food waste, this paper aims at filling those gaps by 
contributing to the conference track “Ecosystems in Support of Sustainability”. 
Methods 
Based on a rich document analysis and 5 semi-structured interviews with TGTG’s CEO, Education 
Area Manager, and Italian Business Developer, this exploratory study adopts a dynamic 
performance management (DPM) approach (Bianchi, 2016) to frame the relationships between the 
main end results, performance drivers, and strategic resources characterizing the TGTG’s circular 
business model. 
DPM arises from the cohesion between the system dynamics (SD) methodology (Forrester, 1961) 
and performance management in order to support decision-makers to evaluate performance under 
a systemic perspective (Bianchi, 2016). More precisely, DPM enables decision-makers to highlight 
short-term end-results (i.e., output) and long-term end-results (i.e., outcome) by opportunely 
leveraging performance drivers (or intermediate results), activated, in turn, through the 
deployment of the strategic resources owned. Finally, these strategic resources usually accumulate 
or deplete based on the change rates of the end-results themselves (Figure 1). 
Figure 1. The DPM framework. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
157 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Source: Bianchi (2016:p.73). 
The resulting interconnections constitute a system, namely “a regularly interacting or 
interdependent group of items forming a unified whole” (Merriam-Webster, 2022). Over time, 
those system components positively or negatively affect one another based on diachronic or 
synchronous interrelationships that constitute the so-called feedback loops (Gnoffo, 2021). In SD, 
the latter typically shape the model structure, while the way through which they develop over time 
constitutes the system behavior (Sterman, 2000). Accordingly, this paper makes use of primary and 
secondary data to build a DPM chart depicting the structure of the causal mechanisms linking the 
end-results, performance drivers, and strategic resources underlying the successful TGTG’s circular 
business model. 
To better visualize the feedback structure thus identified, we also depicted an SD model in the form 
of a causal loop diagram. Indeed, causal loop diagrams are particularly useful to visualize the 
circular logic that defines the connections between distinct variables that compose systems 
characterized by multiple feedback loops (Richardson, 2011). Figure 2 offers an example of a causal 
loop diagram, where A, B, and C represent the system’s variables, while the arrows connecting them 
represent causal relationships. These causal relationships can be positive or negative (Sterman, 
2000). Positive links mean that there is a direct causal relationship between two variables. For 
example, if A increases (decreases), also B will increase (or decrease). Differently, negative links 
mean that the causal relationship is inverse. So, if B increases (decreases), C will decrease (or 
increase), thus showing an inverse behavior. Feedback loops that include null or an even number 
of negative links are defined as self-reinforcing (usually labeled with an “R”) and associated with 
exponential growth or decay behaviors. Feedback loops that include an odd number of negative 
causal links, as in Figure 2, are defined self-balancing (usually labeled with a “B”) and associated 
with a target-seeking behavior. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
158 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 2. A simplified representation of a causal loop diagram. 
 
Source: own elaboration. 
Results 
The dynamic cause and effect relationships underlying the model are shown in the DPM chart in 
Figure 3 and the causal loop diagram depicted in Figure 4. In the following sections, each of those 
causal relationships is presented and discussed in detail. 
 
Figure 3. The DPM chart of the causal relationships underlying TGTG's circular business model. 
 
Source: own elaboration 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
159 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 4. The causal loop diagram of the causal relationships underlying TGTG's circular business 
model. 
 
Source: own elaboration 
Too Good To Go and the reduction of food waste 
The accomplishment of the TGTG’s primary mission to reduce food waste at the retail stage of the 
supply chain (De Bernardi et al., 2021) can be measured by the intermediate result “food recovery 
ratio”, indicating the social performance driver of the overall TGTG’s project. Particularly, it 
compares the amount of food recovered to that of food unsold and positively impacts TGTG’s brand 
reputation as food recovered equals food unsold. In turn, brand reputation, related to an opportune 
benchmark (e.g., the best-in-class company’s or the desired reputation level), measures the network 
effect that contributes to broadening the demand-side user base as a result of the enhancement of 
the main stakeholders’ perceptions of competitive and social positioning of TGTG, thus fostering the 
food recouping itself; and vice versa (Loop R1). 
With this aim, TGTG allows retail partners to sell their still-consumable food unsold at a competitive 
price (Cane and Parra, 2020). Food exchanged on the platform typically encompasses all those edible 
products within the timeframe of the “best-before” date (Aschemann-Witzel et al., 2015). 
Consumers’ reservation price of products with visual or organic flaws is generally lower than intact 
food (Yue et al., 2009). In addition, when they “perceive dates on foods as an indicator of freshness 
[… they] are willing to pay more for the food […, meaning that] the willingness to pay for a perishable 
product decreases throughout its shelf life” (Aschemann-Witzel et al., 2015, p. 6462). 
Therefore, when the perceived food unsold storage time does not exceed the average ‘best-before’ 
date, the performance driver “value for money ratio” generally assumes an acceptable level for 
consumers. This further improves the perceived food quality, fostering app usage, increasing sales 
on TGTG’s platform, and reducing the food unsold storage time perceived by end-users (Loop R2). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
160 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
This is consistent with the results of six focus groups conducted by Van der Haar and Zeinstra (2019). 
Demand-side users have had diverse reactions and expressed differentiated judgments about the 
quality and the mix of edible products found inside the magic boxes, ranging from total enthusiasm 
and satisfaction to disappointment regarding packaging, product type, and expiration dates. The 
study relied on perceptions and experiences of people with heterogeneous personalities, mindsets, 
knowledge, beliefs, and bases of values. Thus, positive or negative feedback mainly depended on 
personal preferences, opinions, habits, and convictions about the ‘best-before’ date. Nonetheless, 
most of their experiences were considered positive, and rarely food was wasted from the magic box. 
Too Good To Go and educational and political campaigns 
In addition to food unsold quality, also the “education programs ratio” is a fundamental component 
of the platform’s service system. TGTG continuously budgets and promotes educational pathways 
against food waste for schools and universities, aiming to mitigate the tendency to care more about 
value for money instead of the actual rationale of the so-called “circularity brokerage” (Ciulli et al., 
2020). This effort represents one of the four pillars sustaining the TGTG’s ambition to reduce food 
waste by “teaching the next generation how to value our resources and to protect our planet” (Too 
Good To Go, 2021a), thus purposefully reawakening the people’s inherent driving power of ethical 
purchase choices detected by Watson and Meah (2012). As a result, launching educational programs 
against food waste has allowed TGTG to attract new end-users, enhancing the “expected profits 
ratio” and, in turn, encouraging their access to the platform (Loop R3). 
Previous research detected how consumers’ ability to properly understand the meaning of the 
expiration date on product labels (Van Boxstael et al., 2014) is one of the most significant variables 
influencing the decision to use or throw “sub-optimal” food away (Aschemann-Witzel, 2018). In this 
regard, TGTG has started to foster policies aimed at making labels more transparent and 
comprehensible for everyone across all of their marketplaces. Indeed, product labeling generates a 
great impact on the consumers’ perception of the food expiration date (Aschemann-Witzel et al., 
2016), which is generally understood as the exact best-before one (Williams and Wikström, 2011). 
With this aim, TGTG has committed “to work hand in hand with governments and policymakers to 
change regulations that currently cause food waste [... so as] to impact the political agenda in at least 
5 of [their] key countries through [their] own campaigns and initiatives with fellow partners” (Too 
Good To Go, 2021b). Hence, the budget fraction devoted to campaigns and initiatives for regulation 
change constitutes the social and environmental driver (i.e., “CIRC ratio”) of the TGTG’s business 
model, which positively affects its brand reputation and the app usage. Thus, it encourages new 
retailers to join the platform, sustaining the self-financing source for novel campaigns (Loop R4). 
The surprising factor and the three self-balancing feedback loops 
The content of a magic box can randomly vary in quality and product type, depending on what retail 
partners' customers buy or not each day. TGTG has made this potential business weakness, linked 
to uncontrollable market dynamics, one of its strong points. Indeed, the “surprise factor” stimulates 
individuals to purchase and discover products they might not have ever known otherwise (Cane and 
Parra, 2020), becoming one of the drivers for the company's value creation. Surprisingly, as it 
emerged from the exploratory study conducted by Van der Haar and Zeinstra (2019), who conducted 
an online survey reaching 611 respondents, the surprise factor was the second driver spurring users 
to use the app. Indeed, while 35% of respondents installed the app to fight food waste, 26% did it 
due to such a factor. This is coherent with Caillaud and Jullien (2001), stating that “the value of an 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
161 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
intermediary for a buyer relates to the number of goods and sellers that can be reached through this 
intermediary, as the value for a seller depends on the size of the demand it will face with it” (p:798). 
Hence, the amount of food unsold offered on the platform should be enough to address the 
expectations of the demand-side users, who in turn shape the demand size attracting new retail 
partners (Ciulli et al., 2020). On the one hand, it means that the more retail partners are present on 
the platform, the more it will be the surprise factor and the subsequent likelihood to find various 
and diversified products inside each magic box (Loop R5). On the other hand, the greater the number 
of orders on the platform, the less the surprise factor will be due to a broader demand to satisfy, 
balancing its positive effect on value for money (Loop B1). 
It follows that the number of still-edible products should actually be demanded on the platform 
(Ciulli et al., 2020). Otherwise, a side effect may arise: as the stock of food unsold increasingly 
becomes available on the platform, it approaches or passes the best-before date (i.e., “food unsold 
storage time” increases). This reduces value for money, the demand-side users, the following 
expectations on profits of potential retail partners, and, so, TGTG’s capability to attract new sellers 
on the platform. Consequently, the unsold food amount will compromise itself (Loop B2). Although 
an amount of unsold food exceeding that of recovered food may generate adverse brand reputation 
outcomes (Loop B3), it represents the underlying assumption behind TGTG’s existence, as well as 
the main aspect of its own mission. 
Conclusion 
Despite the great success of TGTG, finding a sustainable equilibrium between each of the three pillars 
of sustainability has turned out to be not easy. A more widespread usage of the app may allow 
overcoming the crucial aspect of customers’ preeminent attention on value for money at the extent 
to which it may reduce the length of food unsold storage time (Loop R2) and attract new retail 
partners to balance supply and demand (Loop B2). Such an effort requires stressing the importance 
of the social performance of TGTG by means of performing effective educational programs and 
promoting campaigns and initiatives for regulation change. Indeed, both activities have been proved 
essential to improve people’s awareness of food waste implications, better understand the actual 
purpose of the platform, and stimulate their conscience on what still needs to be done to cope with 
such a ‘wicked’ problem as fighting food waste. Hence, addressing complex issues characterized by 
multiple feedback loops and non-linearities like food waste requires multi-stakeholders engagement 
and collective efforts from a broad plethora of actors. In this sense, this study tried to shed light on 
digital platforms, investigating the case of TGTG, as catalysts to spur inter-organizational 
relationships within widespread ecosystems that include food providers, users, universities, schools, 
investors, and public authorities (Zucchella and Previtali, 2019) while contributing to the 3Ps of 
sustainability (i.e., people, planet, profit). Adopting a systemic approach, we proposed a DPM chart 
and a causal loop diagram that helped us to frame the circular complexity characterizing such 
ecosystems and a business model based on sustainable innovation. Thus, we could capture both the 
virtuous or vicious feedback loops encompassing it and identify the different strategic resources, 
performance drivers, and end-results adopting an outcome-based perspective. So, the study offers 
theoretical contributions to the literature streams on sustainable business models (Bocken et al., 
2016; Velter et al., 2020) and digital platforms as part of broader ecosystems (Ciulli et al., 2020; 
Zucchella and Previtali, 2019). In addition to that, the application of DPM enables to offer valuable 
insights on what resources can support the success of a company's business model or be leveraged 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
162 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
to prevent a business failure (Bianchi, 2016; Gnoffo, 2021). By doing so the study can offer several 
implications also to practitioners and decision-makers. 
References  
Aguilera, R. V., Rupp, D.E., Williams, C.A. and Ganapathi, J. (2007), ‘Putting the s back in corporate social 
responsibility: A multilevel theory of social change in organizations’, Academy of Management 
Review, Vol. 32 No. 3, pp. 836–863. 
Aschemann-Witzel, J. (2018), ‘Helping You to Waste Less? Consumer Acceptance of Food Marketing Offers 
Targeted to Food-Related Lifestyle Segments of Consumers’, Journal of Food Products Marketing, 
Taylor & Francis, Vol. 24 No. 5, pp. 522–538. 
Aschemann-Witzel, J., de Hooge, I., Amani, P., Bech-Larsen, T. and Oostindjer, M. (2015), ‘Consumer-related 
food waste: Causes and potential for action’, Sustainability (Switzerland), Multidisciplinary Digital 
Publishing Institute, Vol. 7 No. 6, pp. 6457–6477. 
Aschemann-Witzel, J., de Hooge, I.D. and Normann, A. (2016), ‘Consumer-Related Food Waste: Role of Food 
Marketing and Retailers and Potential for Action’, Journal of International Food and Agribusiness 
Marketing, Taylor & Francis, Vol. 28 No. 3, pp. 271–285. 
De Bernardi, P. and Azucar, D. (2020), Innovation in Food Ecosystems, Springer. 
De Bernardi, P., Bertello, A. and Forliano, C. (2021), ‘Digital Platforms for Circular Business Model Innovation’, 
in Riad Shams, S.M., Vrontis, D., Weber, Y., Tsoukatos Rogdia, E. and Santoro, G. (Eds.), Business 
Model Innovation, Routledge, New York, pp. 116–131. 
Bertello, A., Bogers, M.L.A.M. and De Bernardi, P. (2021), ‘Open innovation in the face of the COVID-19 grand 
challenge: insights from the Pan-European hackathon “EUvsVirus”’, R and D Management, Vol. 52 
No. 2, pp. 178-192 
Bianchi, C. (2016), Dynamic Performance Management, Vol. 1, Springer International Publishing, available 
at:https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-31845-5. 
Bivona, E. and Cosenz, F. (2021), ‘Designing a Multi-Sided Platform business model assessment framework: a 
Dynamic Performance Management perspective’, Systems Research and Behavioral Science, Vol. 38 
No. 1, pp. 93–107. 
Bocken, N.M.P., Weissbrod, I. and Tennant, M. (2016), ‘Business model experimentation for sustainability’, 
in Setchi, R., Howlett, R., Liu, Y. and Theobald, P. (Eds.), Sustainable Design and Manufacturing 2016. 
SDM 2016. Smart Innovation, Systems and Technologies, Vol. 52, Springer, Cham, pp. 297–306. 
Bogers, M., Chesbrough, H. and Moedas, C. (2018), ‘Open innovation: Research, practices, and policies’, 
California Management Review, SAGE Publications Sage CA: Los Angeles, CA, Vol. 60 No. 2, pp. 5–
16. 
Van Boxstael, S., Devlieghere, F., Berkvens, D., Vermeulen, A. and Uyttendaele, M. (2014), ‘Understanding 
and attitude regarding the shelf life labels and dates on pre-packed food products by Belgian 
consumers’, Food Control, Elsevier, Vol. 37 No. 1, pp. 85–92. 
Caillaud, B. and Jullien, B. (2001), ‘Competing cybermediaries’, European Economic Review, Elsevier, Vol. 45 
No. 4–6, pp. 797–808. 
Cane, M. and Parra, C. (2020), ‘Digital platforms: mapping the territory of new technologies to fight food 
waste’, British Food Journal, Emerald Publishing Limited, Vol. 122 No. 5, pp. 1647–1669. 
Ciulli, F., Kolk, A. and Boe-Lillegraven, S. (2020), ‘Circularity Brokers: Digital Platform Organizations and Waste 
Recovery in Food Supply Chains’, Journal of Business Ethics, Springer, Vol. 167 No. 2, pp. 299–331. 
Ferraro, F., Etzion, D. and Gehman, J. (2015), ‘Tackling Grand Challenges Pragmatically: Robust Action 
Revisited’, Organization Studies, Sage Publications Sage UK: London, England, Vol. 36 No. 3, pp. 363–
390. 
Forliano, C., De Bernardi, P., Bertello, A. and Temperini, V. (2020), ‘Innovating business processes in public 
administrations: towards a systemic approach’, Business Process Management Journal, Vol. 26 No. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
163 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
5, pp. 1203-1224. 
Forrester, J.W. (1961), Industrial Dynamics, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA. 
Gawer, A. and Cusumano, M.A. (2014), ‘Industry platforms and ecosystem innovation’, Journal of Product 
Innovation Management, Wiley Online Library, Vol. 31 No. 3, pp. 417–433. 
Gnoffo, S. (2021), ‘A dynamic performance management approach to frame corruption in public 
procurement: a case study’, Journal of Public Procurement, Emerald Publishing Limited, Vol. 21 No. 
1, pp. 75–96. 
Van der Haar, S. and Zeinstra, G.G. (2019), The Impact of Too Good To Go on Food Waste Reduction at the 
Consumer Household Level. An Explorative Study, Wageningen Food & Biobased Research, 
Wagenigen, 
The 
Netherlands, 
available 
at: 
www.wur.eu/wfbr%0Ahttps://library.wur.nl/WebQuery/wurpubs/fulltext/501904. 
Kjaer, L.L., Pigosso, D.C.A., Niero, M., Bech, N.M. and McAloone, T.C. (2019), ‘Product/Service-Systems for a 
Circular Economy: The Route to Decoupling Economic Growth from Resource Consumption?’, 
Journal of Industrial Ecology, Wiley Online Library, Vol. 23 No. 1, pp. 22–35. 
Merriam-Webster. 
(2022), 
‘Definition 
of 
System’, 
available 
at: 
https://www.merriam-
webster.com/dictionary/system (last accessed: 8 February 2022). 
Pieroni, M.P.P., McAloone, T.C. and Pigosso, D.C.A. (2019), ‘Business model innovation for circular economy 
and sustainability: A review of approaches’, Journal of Cleaner Production, Elsevier B.V., Vol. 215, pp. 
198–216. 
Porter, M.E. and Kramer, M.R. (2011), ‘Creating shared value’, Harvard Business Review, Vol. 89 No. 1–2, pp. 
62–77. 
Richardson, G.P. (2011), ‘Reflections on the foundations of system dynamics’, System Dynamics Review, Vol. 
27 No. 3, pp. 219–243. 
Scheidgen, K., Gümüsay, A.A., Günzel-Jensen, F., Krlev, G. and Wolf, M. (2021), ‘Crises and entrepreneurial 
opportunities: Digital social innovation in response to physical distancing’, Journal of Business 
Venturing Insights, Elsevier, Vol. 15, p. e00222. 
Shams, S.M.R., Vrontis, D., Weber, Y., Tsoukatos, E. and Santoro, G. (2021), Business Model Innovation: New 
Frontiers and Perspectives, Business Model Innovation: New Frontiers and Perspectives, Routledge, 
available at:https://doi.org/10.4324/9781003028307. 
Sterman, J. (2000), Business Dynamics. Systems Thinking and Modeling for a Complex World, Irwin/McGraw 
Hill, Boston. 
Täuscher, K. and Laudien, S.M. (2018), ‘Understanding platform business models: A mixed methods study of 
marketplaces’, European Management Journal, Elsevier, Vol. 36 No. 3, pp. 319–329. 
Too Good To Go. (2021a), ‘The Movement Against Food Waste | Schools’, available at: 
https://toogoodtogo.com/en-us/movement/education (last accessed: 14 February 2022). 
Too Good To Go. (2021b), ‘The Movement Against Food Waste | Politics’, available at: 
https://toogoodtogo.org/en/movement/politics (last accessed: 14 February 2022). 
Urbinati, A., Chiaroni, D. and Chiesa, V. (2017), ‘Towards a new taxonomy of circular economy business 
models’, Journal of Cleaner Production, Elsevier, Vol. 168, pp. 487–498. 
Velter, M.G.E., Bitzer, V., Bocken, N.M.P. and Kemp, R. (2020), ‘Sustainable business model innovation: The 
role of boundary work for multi-stakeholder alignment’, Journal of Cleaner Production, Elsevier, Vol. 
247, p. 119497. 
Watson, M. and Meah, A. (2012), ‘Food, Waste And Safety: Negotiating Conflicting Social Anxieties Into The 
Practices Of Domestic Provisioning’, The Sociological Review, Wiley Online Library, Vol. 60 No. S2, 
pp. 102–120. 
Williams, H. and Wikström, F. (2011), ‘Environmental impact of packaging and food losses in a life cycle 
perspective: A comparative analysis of five food items’, Journal of Cleaner Production, Elsevier, Vol. 
19 No. 1, pp. 43–48. 
Yue, C., Alfnes, F. and Jensen, H.H. (2009), ‘Discounting Spotted Apples: Investigating Consumers’ Willingness 
to Accept Cosmetic Damage in an Organic Product’, Journal of Agricultural and Applied Economics, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
164 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Cambridge University Press, Vol. 41 No. 1, pp. 29–46. 
Zucchella, A. and Previtali, P. (2019), ‘Circular business models for sustainable development: A “waste is food” 
restorative ecosystem’, Business Strategy and the Environment, Wiley Online Library, Vol. 28 No. 2, 
pp. 274–285. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
165 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
The emergence and development of 
sustainable entrepreneurial 
ecosystems  
A comparison of three European regions 
Jens Kaus1,*, Man Yang2, Leonhard Gebhardt3,  
Niels Faber1  
1Centre for Sustainable Entrepreneurship, Campus Fryslân, University 
of Groningen, Netherlands; 2Hanken School of Economics, Finland; 
3Faculty of Economics and Social Sciences, University of Potsdam, 
Germany 
* j.kaus@rug.nl 
Abstract 
Research on entrepreneurial ecosystems acknowledges that entrepreneurship is a local 
phenomenon with a reciprocal relationship to the context in which it is situated. However, this 
research remains atheoretical and broad, with the majority of empirical studies aiming to establish 
a macro-level understanding of these ecosystems for fostering high-growth entrepreneurship in 
metropolitan settings. At the same time especially non-metropolitan regions increasingly turn to 
entrepreneurship as a means to ignite economic development. Since these regions are structurally 
different from big cities in terms of demographic factors, infrastructure and networks, the findings 
from research on high-growth entrepreneurship in big cities are hardly transferable. The relevance 
of the entrepreneurial ecosystem concept for non-metropolitan regions, as well as how these 
ecosystems can be a force for good to contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals, remains 
largely unexplored. With our study, we investigate and compare regional sustainable 
entrepreneurial ecosystems in three non-metropolitan European regions which aim to foster 
sustainable entrepreneurs. While we identify particular challenges of smallness, power dynamics 
and conflicts as well as resistance to change, we also delineate enabling factors that can – in 
accordance with the emergence and development stage of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems 
– overcome such challenges. Overall, our theoretical contribution encompasses a novel micro-level 
understanding of ecosystem emergence in non-metropolitan regions based on the actions and 
interactions of regional actors and in the context of sustainable entrepreneurship. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
166 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Keywords  
Entrepreneurial ecosystems, Sustainable entrepreneurship, Sustainability, Co-creation, Collective 
sustainable innovation 
 
Introduction 
Sustainable entrepreneurship addresses environmental (York & Venkataraman, 2010) and social 
challenges (Zahra et al., 2009) through a viable business (Schaltegger & Wagner, 2011). Despite new 
and existing ventures increasingly recognizing the need to adopt sustainable practices (Elkington, 
2006), the institutional environment, such as the perceived lack of financial resources and start-up 
information or the complexity of administrative procedures, is a barrier for sustainable 
entrepreneurs (Hoogendoorn et al., 2019) to address sustainable development challenges at scale. 
Therefore, better support structures are needed to help sustainable entrepreneurs form and grow 
their businesses. Overall, entrepreneurship is considered an important contributor to (regional) 
society (Mitra, 2019; Szerb et al., 2019) and the understanding on its dependence on regional 
properties is growing (Müller, 2016). In light of this, knowledge on entrepreneurial ecosystems, 
defined as “the union of localized cultural outlooks, social networks, investment capital, 
universities, and active economic policies that create environments supportive of innovation-based 
ventures” (Spigel, 2017, p. 49), is rapidly developing (Autio et al., 2018; Spigel & Harrison, 2018; 
Stam & van de Ven, 2019). 
Despite the growing research interest in entrepreneurial ecosystems, the theorizing of a sustainable 
entrepreneurial ecosystem is at the nascent stage with inconsistent conceptualization, resulting in 
scattered empirical insights (Bischoff, 2021; Cohen, 2006; O’Shea et al., 2021; Theodoraki et al., 
2018; Volkmann et al., 2021). Given the state of the research, we see two major research gaps that 
we address in this article. First, drawing on the entrepreneurial ecosystem literature that is 
primarily based on urban settings (Colombelli et al., 2019; Kapturkiewicz, 2021; Mack & Mayer, 
2016), research on entrepreneurial ecosystems emergence in non-urban settings is scarce. Second, 
because the focus of entrepreneurial ecosystem studies is often on supporting high-growth 
entrepreneurship centered around commercial values (Audretsch & Belitski, 2021; Spigel, 2018; 
Stam & van de Ven, 2019), we identify the role of entrepreneurial ecosystems in supporting 
sustainable entrepreneurship, which is driven by social, environmental, and commercial values, as 
under-researched. 
Elaborating on the knowledge gaps, there are only few studies that focus on non-metropolitan 
areas or on how these entrepreneurial ecosystems can be a force for good to foster sustainability 
and overall well-being as outcomes (Moggi et al., 2021; Thompson et al., 2018; Volkmann et al., 
2021). These studies have established the need for investigating the entrepreneurial ecosystem 
concept for sustainable entrepreneurship (Volkmann et al., 2021), examined the role of different 
stakeholders (Bischoff, 2021) and the ways in which a sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems can 
form through everyday interactions (Thompson et al., 2018), as well as how entrepreneurial 
ecosystems can become sustainable (DiVito & Ingen-Housz, 2021). However, extant research still 
lacks a detailed understanding of different actors’ roles to the emergence and development of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
167 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems in the context of non-metropolitan regions (Cho et al., 
2022).  
Small cities and less-populated regions increasingly turn to entrepreneurship as a means to ignite 
economic development and improve well-being (Audretsch & Belitski, 2021; Audretsch & Keilbach, 
2004; French, 2022; Welter et al., 2008). However, these cities and regions are structurally different 
from metropolitan areas regarding their key challenges, economic, socio-cultural, and resource 
characteristics (P. Roundy, 2017; Walsh & Winsor, 2019), and community assets (Reynolds, 2022) 
which implies the need for different ecosystem building approaches compared to urban areas. For 
example, entrepreneurship research from non-metropolitan contexts have coined the term 
‘countryside capital’ (Garrod et al., 2006), to value the “landscape, biodiversity and other material 
features that make up a rural area” (Muñoz & Kimmitt, 2019, p. 845). Existing theorizing of 
entrepreneurial ecosystems is therefore neither applicable to the context of non-metropolitan 
areas nor for advancing sustainable entrepreneurship. Consequently, we believe it is beneficial to 
advance the field of entrepreneurial ecosystem research (Alvedalen & Boschma, 2017) to 
investigate those undertheorized mechanisms in non-metropolitan regions. Furthermore, given the 
significance of the Sustainable Development Goals (United Nations, 2018) for regional 
development, it is important to develop a theory of sustainability-driven entrepreneurial 
ecosystems to explore the mechanisms that drive sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem 
emergence and development.   
To develop the theory of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems, we address the following 
research question: Why and how do sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems emerge and develop? 
We employ a multi case study of the non-metropolitan regions of Friesland in the Netherlands, 
Uckermark/Barnim in Germany, and Ostrobothnia in Finland. Building on interviews, focus groups 
and observational data, we detail the actions of individual and collective actors who collaborate 
across their organizational boundaries to develop an entrepreneurial ecosystem around sustainable 
entrepreneurship. In addressing the outlined research question, we want to contribute to the 
debate around the phenomenon of entrepreneurial ecosystem evolution. Our theoretical 
contribution encompasses a novel micro-level understanding of entrepreneurial ecosystem 
emergence in non-metropolitan regions. We offer a process perspective and framework on how 
collaborations emerged and developed. In that vein, our study follows a call for more qualitative 
research in regional entrepreneurship to challenge the idea of entrepreneurship being primarily an 
urban event driven by only economic motivations of the entrepreneurs (Dodd et al., 2021; 
Sternberg, 2021).  
In the following, we introduce our theoretical background, expanding on entrepreneurial 
ecosystem emergence and development, before we introduce more information on methods and 
the selected cases. In the findings section, we introduce our process model. We end our article with 
a discussion and conclusion in the light of the current state of the literature. 
Theoretical background 
The entrepreneurial ecosystem concept is based on the agency of entrepreneurial actors that can 
shape their own context (Feldman, 2014) and it has been adopted fast. So much that some even 
regard it as “The New Industrial Policy” (Startup Genome, 2020), leading to a situation where policy 
is leading research, as compared to being informed by it (Stam & Bosma, 2015). Most research to 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
168 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
date has focused on the actors and factors of entrepreneurial ecosystems (Isenberg, 2011; Stam, 
2015). In this line, research has grouped entrepreneurial ecosystem categories into material, social, 
and cultural attributes (Spigel, 2017) and structured entrepreneurial ecosystems into structural, 
cognitive, and relational dimensions using a social capital perspective (Theodoraki et al., 2018). Yet, 
entrepreneurial ecosystem research remains largely atheoretical and static, and only recent 
contributions stress their contribution to a more sustainable future (Theodoraki et al., 2021; 
Volkmann et al., 2021). 
This novel stream of research on sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems explores how 
geographically bound institutional networks can foster sustainable entrepreneurship (Cohen, 2006; 
Volkmann et al., 2021). Such an ecosystem has been defined as “the interconnected set of 
entrepreneurial stakeholders in a regional entrepreneurial environment that directly focus on 
fostering engagement in sustainable entrepreneurship to contribute to the transition to a more 
sustainable regional environment” (Bischoff, 2021, p. 2). In contrast to conventional 
entrepreneurial ecosystems, the main actors within sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems are 
committed to sustainable development through supporting entrepreneurship that creates social, 
environmental, and economic value(s) (Cohen, 2006). Bound by a common vision, these actors offer 
tailored support to foster sustainable entrepreneurship (Bischoff & Volkmann, 2018). To the 
knowledge of the authors, empirical research about how these types of entrepreneurial ecosystems 
are formed and relevant prerequisites is scarce. 
Overall, little is known about how entrepreneurial ecosystems emerge (birth stage) and develop 
(growth stage) (Cavallo et al., 2019). Entrepreneurial ecosystems are suggested to follow the 
lifecycle stages of birth, growth, sustainment, and decline  (Mack & Mayer, 2016) but existing 
explanations vary in the role assigned to anchor organizations (Colombelli et al., 2019). Others 
indicate that entrepreneurial ecosystems emerge based on uncoordinated, semi-autonomous (P. 
T. Roundy et al., 2018) or collective action (Thomas & Ritala, 2021). Literature suggests that both 
top-down and bottom-up approaches to entrepreneurial ecosystem emergence are possible 
(Colombo et al., 2019), but more knowledge is needed on the processes during which diverse 
stakeholders develop into a close-knit community with shared goals that are idiosyncratic for 
sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems. The top-down approach which oftentimes aims to 
duplicate other successful entrepreneurial ecosystems is likely to fail (Mason & Brown, 2014) 
because it disregards the context of such ecosystems, reflected in the region’s history, culture, and 
values (Pittz et al., 2019). On the other hand, the bottom-up approach leads to issues of 
appropriability (Pitelis, 2012) and collective action (Spigel, 2018) as entrepreneurs have to invest 
significant resources into building the ecosystem, while pursuing their own endeavors at the same 
time. This approach also disregards governmental organizations that play an important role in 
sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems (Bischoff & Volkmann, 2018). Both top-down and bottom-
up approaches can set apart the emergence and development of a sustainable entrepreneurial 
ecosystem in comparison to entrepreneurial ecosystems.  
Wurth et. al (2021) distinguish between the ontological and epistemological conceptualization of 
entrepreneurial ecosystem emergence. The ontological perspective talks about entrepreneurial 
ecosystem emergence, allowing us to speak of them ‘being’ there. Studies using this lens employ 
established theories, such as institutional (Stephens et al., 2019), evolutionary (Colombelli et al., 
2019), or complex adaptive system theories (P. T. Roundy et al., 2018) to study processes of 
ecosystem emergence. Epistemologically, entrepreneurial ecosystems emerge within economic 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
169 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
systems which can enable or constrain entrepreneurial activity to create new value as an emergent 
property of the system (Wurth et al., 2021). To understand the emergence and development of 
sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems, in this article, we aim at offering an ontological 
conceptualization.  
In line with recent contributions on entrepreneurial  ecosystem emergence and development that 
build on institutional entrepreneurship and work (Auschra et al., 2019; Kapturkiewicz, 2021), our 
investigation also employs an institutional lens. Institutional entrepreneurship and social 
movement theory (Thomas & Ritala, 2021) are concerned with the purposive actions of actors 
aimed at institutional change (Lawrence & Suddaby, 2006) and offer a useful lens when analyzing 
sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem emergence based on actors’ agency. Research on 
institutional entrepreneurship acknowledges that these change processes can result from a 
collective process, as compared to individual heroic achievements (Battilana et al., 2009), based on 
the distributed agency of actors (Garud et al., 2007). Similarly, social movement theory explains 
how groups of individuals change institutions through collective action (Weber & King, 2013). Yet, 
the question of why and how distributed actors, as the case with sustainable entrepreneurial 
ecosystems, can promote system-level change for sustainable outcomes remains open (Ferraro et 
al., 2015).  
In summary, literature on sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems leaves many questions 
unanswered. To some extent it becomes clear that ecosystem emergence and development relate 
to three levels of analysis. First, it relates to the collective agency of diverse regional actors (O’Shea 
et al., 2019). Second, and related, it links to how these multiple actors collaborate and coalesce in 
forming shared intentional action (Bratman, 2014). Third, contextual conditions, such as 
institutional infrastructure (Kapturkiewicz, 2021) and place-specific assets (Mason & Brown, 2014), 
play a role in that they may or may not nurture the individual and collective efforts. Our empirical 
exploration focuses on all three, aiming to increase our understanding of sustainable 
entrepreneurial ecosystem evolution building on different cases in non-metropolitan areas. 
Methods 
This study uses a multiple case study design to develop an in-depth understanding of a real world 
phenomenon to reveal how the emergence and development of sustainable entrepreneurial 
ecosystems can unfold (Yin, 2018). It employs an inductive approach that aims to build theory from 
cases, which is argued to be appropriate to address grand challenges such as sustainable 
development (Eisenhardt et al., 2016). An inductive research approach is chosen to allow for an in-
depth exploration of why and how different regional stakeholders collaborate to establish 
sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems which has not yet been explored empirically. By comparing 
different cases in similar contexts, we aim to shine light on the various factors at play in sustainable 
entrepreneurial ecosystem emergence and development. Reflecting on our epistemology, this 
study assumes the social construction of reality in which we regard our informants as 
knowledgeable agents (Berger & Luckmann, 1966). As we integrate the information of our 
informants to a process of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem emergence and development, 
our endeavor follows a rather constructivist paradigm (Levers, 2013).  
Sampling We conducted purposeful sampling (Patton, 2014) and selected information-rich cases 
on the emergence and development of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems in Europe. In that 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
170 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
vein, we selected the cases according to the following criteria: (1) the case meets the definition of 
a sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem (Bischoff, 2021; Cohen, 2006); (2) the case is situated in a 
non-metropolitan region based on the World Bank data (data.worldbank.org); (3) the researchers 
have access for data collection. Such sampling criteria led to the province of Friesland in the 
Netherlands, Uckermark/Barnim in Germany, and Ostrobothnia in Finland. In Table A1 in the 
appendix, we describe our cases in more detail.  
Data The data collection followed a multi-stage procedure: 1) exploratory interviews to obtain a 
general overview of the ecosystem and its’ actors, 2) focus groups to generate case-based timelines 
(Bagnoli, 2009) and to determine the ecosystems lifecycle stage (Mack & Mayer, 2016) based on 
our participants perception, and 3) semi-structured in-depth interviews to refine our understanding 
of stakeholder cooperation and organization for sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem 
emergence. Corresponding to the access to data, the first three authors took the lead in data 
collection in the three different cases. Focus group participants have been identified based on 
exploratory interviews, internet searches, and referrals, and based on the criteria that they had 
involvement in the formation of the ecosystem. For the purpose of group constellation, close 
attention was paid to diversity, in that groups were comprised of individuals from both the private 
and public sector to allow for a variety of perspectives and opinions to emerge. The size of the focus 
groups was limited to 3 or 4 people which is deemed appropriate when participants have 
specialized knowledge or experience to discuss in the group setting (Krueger & Casey, 2015). 
Interview participants were then selected on the basis of both the milestones identified as part of 
the focus group sessions and the analysis of prior interviews. We also participated in events 
organized by and for ecosystem stakeholders, observed interactions and gathered field notes. 
Secondary sources such as documents and public reports provided additional information on the 
case setting. In Table 1, we present the data sources and uses.  
Table 1: Description of Data 
Data types  
(and dates) 
Amount and location 
Use in Analysis 
Primary data 
 
 
Exploratory 
interviews 
6 in Friesland, 2 in Uckermark/Barnim, 2 
in Ostrobothnia   
Identify entrepreneurial ecosystem 
stakeholders who influence ecosystem 
emergence and development 
In-depth semi-
structured interviews  
9 in Friesland, 7 in Uckermark/Barnim, 8 
in Ostrobothnia 
(lasting between 45 and 75 minutes) 
Identify strategies and actions of 
ecosystem stakeholders undertaken for 
entrepreneurial ecosystem development  
Focus groups 
2 in Friesland, 1 in Uckermark/Barnim, 1 
in Ostrobothnia 
Create a timeline of ecosystem 
emergence 
Observations 
1 in Uckermark/Barnim: Year-end event 
of public funded innovation ecosystem 
development project  
Yielding insights into ecosystem 
stakeholder communication and 
collaboration, topical issue and assess 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
171 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
1 in Ostrobothina: Vaasa EnergyWeek 
2022, annual event that gathers 
stakeholders, startups and talents meet 
with international investors and 
executives 
lifecycle stage of entrepreneurial 
ecosystem maturity 
Seconday data 
 
 
Reports from 
entrepreneurial 
ecosystem 
stakeholders / 
various newspaper 
articles 
Friesland: Leeuwarden-Ljouwert’s 
application for European Capital of 
Culture 2018: Criss-Crossing 
Communities: Iepen Mienskip (2018) / 
Innovatiepact Fryslan Beleidsplan 2020 
(2020) 
Uckermark/Barnim: IW Consult (2019): 
Recode Uckermark 2030, OECD Local 
Entrepreneurship Reviews (2006): 
Entrepreneurship in the Districts 
Uckermark in Brandenburg, and Parchim 
in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania 
Ostrobothnia: Ostrobothnia in transition 
regional report - Roadmap for sustainable 
development and circular economy 
(2020) 
Triangulate exploratory interviews to 
identify ecosystem stakeholders, add 
information for timeline construction 
 
Analysis The focus groups and interviews were transcribed by the data collecting researcher. For 
the data analysis, we used Atlas.ti. After coding and drafting an intitial coding-structure for our 
initial case of Friesland, the resulting coding paradigm was discussed and critically reflected upon 
by the case-uninvolved authors. In this light, we applied a grounded theory approach and utilized 
both (analytical) theoretical sampling and the constant comparison method throughout the study 
(Charmaz, 2014; Strauss & Corbin, 1998). In pursuing grounded theory (Strauss & Corbin, 1998), we 
first developed open, informant-centric codes which was followed by axial and selective coding, 
and facilitated by memoing. This approach allowed us to explore the enablers and mechanisms of 
sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem emergence and development in the form of a process 
model which has not been explored empirically to date. The process model draws on a substantive 
ontology that regards the process as evolution and aims to trace the path of change over time 
through events, activities, and choices (Fachin & Langley, 2018). The corresponding data structure 
is provided in Figure A1. 
Findings 
Based on the data analysis, the study finds that the emergence of sustainable entrepreneurial 
ecosystems follows the process of developing sustainability opportunities, bottom-up organizing, 
creating a shared identity, building legitimacy, and attracting collaborations, which in turn triggers 
developing sustainability opportunities. Such process of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem 
emergence and development is enabled by a mutual perception of sustainability and influenced by 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
172 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the regional contextual factors of both the history and sense of place. Figure 1 presents the process 
model of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem emergence and development.  
 
Figure 1: A process model of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem emergence 
and development 
 
Having a mutual perception of sustainability across different stakeholders is a fundamental enabler 
for sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem evolution. This involves that these stakeholders regard 
sustainability as contributing towards sustainable development and realize the importance of 
supporting sustainable entrepreneurship as a means to foster sustainable innovation. 
“Well, what does sustainability mean to you? That's actually an Earth, which can 
continue, which is sustainable in a way that we don't take more than what the Earth is 
producing itself. So that means if you. For me it's a kind of a way of life, it has become a 
way of life. In that case I look to clean, healthy, and, happy. And if we can combine that, 
we developed a complete vision around those three themes, I would say.” (F11) 
The empirical study has shown that ecosystem emergence is most successful in a bottom-up 
manner. This involves that regional leaders, mostly from the business community and who are 
deeply embedded in their economic and socio-cultural context, actively look for sustainability 
opportunities.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
173 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 “If the government isn't willing to pay, they will take it themselves and they will do it and 
it will be even better. The spirit of [sustainable] entrepreneurship…is very strong in this 
area.” (O4) 
 
Mode of 
action 
Evidence from 
Friesland case 
Evidence from 
Uckermark/Barnim case 
Evidence from 
Ostrobothnia case 
Opportunity 
seeking 
“So there was a strong 
personal motivation, and 
yeah, then in this field of 
searching, looking to the 
profile of Friesland, could it 
be one of the first regions 
that is very much focused.” 
(F8) 
And I call it Grassroot now 
because it was about doing small 
projects with little effort to make 
an impact. So that means budget, 
little organization and just get 
going. There's then, for example. 
Ah, I don't know - we built the 
first cargo bike with very few 
resources in some garage, with 
people from Berlin as contacts 
and as knowledge carriers, but in 
principle we started from scratch. 
(UB4) 
“Ostrobothnia are very 
industrious. So that's 
something that connects the 
all of these people. They have 
a strong spirit of doing stuff. If 
the government isn't willing to 
pay, they will take it 
themselves and they will do it 
and it will be even better. 
That's the basic idea. And the 
spirit of [sustainable] 
entrepreneurship I think is 
very strong in this area.” (O4) 
Inspiration 
seeking 
“Also is a very well 
developed ecosystem. Well, 
there was also certain kind 
of inspirations that we 
needed to do it in a scale 
that fits in the Frisian 
system.” (F8) 
“We now also have exchanges 
with other campuses ... So we also 
think that it's good to have a 
coworking or also a makerspace. 
For example, we know from 
Coconat, which is also in 
Brandenburg, that there have 
been 10 spin-offs there by now, 
just due to the collaboration in 
coworking alone.” (F_UB_3) 
“We have a really high 
standard of doing things here 
in the Nordic countries, like 
taking care of the waste or 
reusing all kinds of things that 
might be able to reuse. And, 
that is something that along 
the way they [entrepreneurs] 
haven't been able to tell the 
story to the customer, that we 
have solar panels on the roof, 
and we are buying green 
electricity, and we are taking 
care of the waste 
management, so we have zero 
waste, and so on. And this is 
about branding, I would say, 
that they [entrepreneurs] are 
not good at this.” (O6) 
Crafting 
visions 
“And what we did is that we 
put all the agendas over 
each other, and that we 
developed a vision on the 
region, and also the 
perspective from where we 
want to head for and what 
we did afterwards, which is 
aligning all the programs 
among the business, among 
the education institutions, 
and they come from among 
the government, just to 
“[T]hey held workshops on which 
topics could be particularly 
exciting. That was probably quite 
an act, and they also brought in a 
moderator. Partly because it was 
such a conflict-ridden process as 
to what they wanted to focus on. 
And we ended up with three fields 
of action, also supported by the 
area of sustainable economy, 
namely agriculture and food, 
services of general interest and 
infrastructure […]. And the third 
“We envision ourselves as a 
platform for local innovative 
companies to test out ideas 
and help them and connect 
them also to places and 
people and companies that 
might be of interest.” (O4) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
174 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
align those so that so 
everybody could develop 
their own actions, in which 
they could add energy to the 
flywheel.” (F11) 
topic was sustainable tourism.” 
(UB2) 
Alliance 
building 
“So, I think why are there so 
many [networks]. It's I think 
dealing with the history of 
our province, in our 
province, we have a saying 
that things happen within 
op z'n elfendertigst, en op 
z'n elfendertigst [extremely 
slow and cumbersome] is 
dealing with the 11 cities of 
the province, and dertig is 
referring to the 30 
municipalities. And in 
Friesland you had to talk 
with the 11 cities and the 30 
municipalities to get 
commitments. And well, it's 
logical that that that amount 
of participants takes a lot of 
time.” (F10) 
“I wasn't there yet, was in 2017, 
when the HNEE [regional 
university] and about 30 actors 
from the region got together and 
thought about what could be 
written into an innovation 
strategy.” (UB2) 
“Then we realised that we 
have lots of knowledge in this 
region. But we haven't told 
the story, so to speak. And 
then we decided we need to 
brand this somehow and then 
we started to think about how 
to do that. So, collectively, 
within the EnergyVaasa brand 
is nowadays 160 companies 
doing (renewable) energy 
related business.” (O2) 
Collaborating 
“So first of all, we created a 
strategy where everybody 
can contribute to the 
strategy. So everybody had 
the same position. There 
were no politics on the 
table.” (F14) 
Or if I have young entrepreneurs 
here, 23 years old, and then say: 
Watch out, there is the regional 
pilot. And there are special 
programs for young 
entrepreneurs. Young Companies. 
Sometimes I call right away and 
say: Hello Young Companies, Hello 
Migrant Pilot Service, I have 
someone here, then sometimes 
an appointment is made right 
away and if I don't reach anyone, I 
give them the contact details they 
can turn to. (UB1) 
“Our region has the most 
experience and longest 
experiences in this [circular 
economy] and cooperated 
very much with high schools 
and universities and projects 
with Swedes and in Finland 
and so on. Still very many 
projects to find from the 
biowaste and biogas plants 
and such things.” (O1) 
Formalization 
“It was till now an open 
process. And because of the 
growth and the common 
and mutual agenda, we now 
develop the next phase of 
the governance. So that 
process is more formalized.” 
(P14) 
“So a great deal has happened, 
[…] and the current status in the 
House with a Future is that we 
now have the house there. The 
University for Sustainable 
Development uses this house to 
allow students to be creative in 
the form of a living lab. We have 
announced a space scholarship 
and have now also found the 
scholarship holders.” (UB6) 
“We have the world leading 
companies, sub 
subcontractors, entrepreneurs 
already within the region 
here, but they are still 
increasing in numbers, 
increasing in size. Overall I 
would say we are still in a very 
strong growth phase.” (O8) 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
175 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
These individuals feel strongly about their region and are driven by an emotional culture 
perspective to protect and preserve the region. As such, they have an intrinsic interest in supporting 
the regions’ sustainable development. 
“Basically, the vision behind arcadia is that we said, okay, our main challenge right now 
as a region, is the question of how we will be a good ancestor? How will we give this 
region to the generations that come after us as a great country to grow up in and to 
have a good climate, good ecology, an open society, etc.” ( F12) 
It is especially in this early phase of ecosystem development that individuals assume a leadership 
role to take and organize initiative. These individuals are willing to take risks and look for inspiration 
to find ways in which they can develop and advance their sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem.  
“We visited YES!Delft, for instance. Also is a very well developed ecosystem. Well, there 
was also certain kind of inspirations that we needed to do it in a scale that fits in the 
Frisian system.” (F8) 
They also realize that an ecosystem approach is needed to capitalize on these opportunities and 
they organize in a bottom-up manner by leveraging their strong informal networks to build a 
coalition of the willing. This initial group of people believes in the cause and is motivated by 
supporting the sustainable development of the region but they also recognize a long-term benefit 
for their own organization from engaging in these activities.  
“I think that one of the main success factors was that the early adaptors are the first 
group innovators, they, they were an inspired group, they were a group of a coalition of 
the willing, but also a coalition of people who had who had entrepreneurial skills.” (F10) 
After a coalition of the willing is found, they collectively organize and involve other stakeholders, 
notably from the spheres of industry, government, and academia and engage in activities related 
to creating a shared identity. In doing so, they organize to discuss and formulate a joint 
sustainability vision for the region which is then translated into the different organizations’ 
agendas.  
“And what we did is that we put all the agendas over each other, and that we developed 
a vision on the region, and also the perspective from where we want to head for and 
what we did afterwards, which is aligning all the programs among the business, among 
the education institutions, and they come from among the government, just to align 
those so that so everybody could develop their own actions, in which they could add 
energy to the flywheel.” (F11) 
Furthermore, creating a shared identity is aided by both drawing on the unique aspects of regional 
culture which is used to create a common sense of community, as well as by instilling pride through 
achieving regional accomplishments. 
“The idea was to use culture as a driver for social change for sustainable, sustainability 
actions. So it wasn't.. it was always the idea to use culture as a driver for something else. 
And that something else was mainly that shared goal of this area that it's just good to 
live in.” (F6) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
176 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The importance of creating this shared identity is influenced by people’s sense of place. For 
instance, people from the province of Friesland may have the perception that they are on the 
“outskirts of the Netherlands” (P13) or have the feeling that “you don’t count, that you’re at the 
periphery” (P12) which, coupled with the history of the province, has led in the Frisian case how to 
be self-sufficient and solving their own problems. However, this also resulted in many closed-off 
Frisian networks which is an impediment to collaboration.   
“So, I think why are there so many [networks]. It's I think dealing with the history of our 
province, in our province, we have a saying that things happen within op z'n 
elfendertigst, en op z'n elfendertigst [extremely slow and cumbersome] is dealing with 
the 11 cities of the province, and dertig is referring to the 30 municipalities. And in 
Friesland you had to talk with the 11 cities and the 30 municipalities to get 
commitments. And well, it's logical that that that amount of participants takes a lot of 
time.” (F10) 
In order for people to be willing to collaborate across organizational and regional boundaries, it is 
therefore necessary to open-up these networks and create a mutual story that everyone can 
identify with. In Friesland, this has been achieved in the process of becoming the European Capital 
of Culture 2018 which had the slogan of ‘iepen mienskip’, where ‘iepen’ is the Frisian word for open 
and ‘mienskip’ represents the sense of community. 
“So mienskip is a very relevant thing for the Frisians. We are proud of our mienskip, we 
think our mienskip can be something a little bit different than other mienskips. That is 
partly true and partly not true. For us, mienskip is not only a sense of community, it's 
also something very active. It's something you do, you practice. But we also realize that 
this mienskip can be very closed. So our challenge is to open that mienskip up. And part 
of our story is to open up that mienskip for European future.” (F12) 
Another step in the emergence of the sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem is that of building 
legitimacy. This involves that regional leaders convince other stakeholders of why the opportunity 
is worthwhile to pursue and invest in. Ultimately, it is essential that governmental actors are 
included in these discussions and convinced to support the sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem 
as they can provide funding, create markets for sustainable products and services, and include long-
term sustainability targets in policies. While envisioned change towards new ways of organizing for 
sustainability will naturally lead to resistance by some, commitment can be obtained best if the 
ecosystem building activity is not in conflict with other initiatives or organizations and when the 
process is open so that everyone can contribute. The achievement of external recognition through 
success stories facilitates the building of legitimacy but multiple bottom-up initiatives may be 
required until enough stakeholders are convinced.  
“So first of all, we created a strategy where everybody can contribute to the strategy. So 
everybody had the same position. There were no politics on the table.” (F14) 
Once there is perceived legitimacy around sustainable entrepreneurship, described by a wide 
acceptance and embracement of the desired future vision, more collaborations are attracted for 
its’ materialization. These collaborations are comprised of actors from industry, government, and 
academia and aimed at further developing the ecosystem but they also reinforce the mindset of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
177 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
stakeholders of belonging to an ecosystem which acts as a positive feedback mechanism. At this 
stage, formalization of agreements occurs to put in place a structure for long-term cooperation.  
 “It was till now an open process. And because of the growth and the common and 
mutual agenda, we now develop the next phase of the governance. So that process is 
more formalized.” (F14) 
Once the ecosystem has emerged, the next step is to develop it further and make it resilient. Thus, 
the process will return to recognizing sustainability opportunities and iteratively repeat to develop 
the sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem. The main output of this ecosystem can be sustainable 
entrepreneurship in the form of both new ventures and corporate entrepreneurship. In particular, 
the Frisian case has shown that business leaders from more established companies that have been 
pursuing sustainable entrepreneurship for some time can be in the lead of developing a support 
structure for emerging sustainable entrepreneurs. Furthermore, the above described process is 
strongly influenced by the history of place. As such, resistance to change and regional power 
dynamics can serve as barriers. Regional actors from any sector, often representing smaller 
organizations, may resist change and are unwilling to take risks as they mostly look for personal 
gain and don’t recognize or expect long-term benefits. Some of these actors may have significant 
power in decision-making processes and can act as gatekeepers to ecosystem development. Lastly, 
the liability of smallness from being a rural region can provide a background for action in that it sets 
limits on the resources or entrepreneurs available but it can also serve as a motivating factor, for 
instance when tackling challenges such as brain drain. 
“So as we know, as a region, we do not have enough entrepreneurship, and how do we 
stimulate it? Well, we try to stimulate by becoming a startup ecosystem, because that is 
the best way to build sustainable companies.” (F3) 
This liability can be overcome by identifying and leveraging the regions assets. However, it will start 
with a few inspired individuals that believe in the possibility and necessity of building a sustainable 
entrepreneurial ecosystem and that have the skills required to create a movement around 
sustainable entrepreneurship.  
Discussion and Contributions 
This research makes several theoretical contributions to entrepreneurial ecosystem literature. First, 
our research develops sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems theory by offering new theoretical 
insights into the causal mechanisms of why and how such ecosystems emerge and develop in 
regions. While prior studies take either the incubator (Theodoraki et al., 2018) or an innovation 
project within an industry cluster (DiVito & Ingen-Housz, 2021) as the unit of analysis, we have 
focused on the process, dynamism, and influencing factors at the regional level. In doing so, the 
regional element of entrepreneurial ecosystems that hosts the actors and factors, as stressed by 
Stam (2015), takes center stage again and we can explain why and how geographically bound 
stakeholders from different spheres of society establish the ecosystem.  
Second, we have highlighted how a bottom-up approach to sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem 
emergence and development can unfold. While the top-down approach has received increased 
attention among policy makers (Bell-Masterson & Stangler, 2015; Mason & Brown, 2014), we show 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
178 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
how regionally embedded individuals can take a leadership role and organize wider stakeholder 
support to create institutions around sustainable entrepreneurship in a bottom-up approach. This 
adds insights to the importance of leadership in entrepreneurial ecosystems (Stam, 2015; Stam & 
van de Ven, 2019) and how it affects other ecosystem elements. Entrepreneurial ecosystems exhibit 
some form self-organization from their complex adaptive nature (P. T. Roundy et al., 2018) but it 
has been acknowledged that this still requires coordination (Miles & Morrison, 2020). While it is 
argued that entrepreneurial ecosystems should be entrepreneur-led, with only a limited role 
assigned to the governments (Feld, 2012; Stam, 2015), we observe a more distributed approach to 
leadership to discover and develop opportunities. These stakeholders pursue both self-and 
collective interest in that they believe in a joint vision and are driven by altruistic motives such as 
commitment to place (McKeever et al., 2015) but also realize that running in packs with other 
collaborators will ultimately benefit themselves and create an entrepreneurial community (Van de 
Ven et al., 2007). As such, entrepreneurial leaders provide an important stimulus for the emergence 
of the entrepreneurial ecosystem through recognizing and developing sustainable opportunities. 
The concept of opportunity recognition has been established in sustainable entrepreneurship 
literature in the context of sustainable businesses (Enthoven, 2021; Patzelt & Shepherd, 2011) but 
we show that it also holds relevance for sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems. While it may not 
be surprising that entrepreneurial actors take the lead at this stage as these likely possess most of 
the action-enabling elements of entrepreneurial agency needed for structural transformation 
(McMullen et al., 2021), these actors also realize that they must convince other stakeholders from 
industry, government, and academia.   
Third, we identified concrete activities performed by regional leaders to mobilize collective action 
for sustainable entrepreneurial emergence and development. In doing so, we complement the 
work on business and innovation ecosystem emergence by Thomas & Ritala (2021) in that we see 
process of ecosystem legitimacy and identity construction in action in the context of sustainable 
entrepreneurial ecosystems. The organizing efforts of regional leaders benefit from a mutual 
understanding of sustainability which is framed around the notion of a circular economy. We do 
not find one dominant orchestrator in facilitating the process of building legitimacy and creating a 
shared identity. Rather, there are multiple actors that assume different roles for emergence and 
development processes that affect both social and cognitive aspects of identity (Polletta & Jasper, 
2001). Literature stipulates that collective action is necessary for collective identity to emerge (King, 
2008) and that an identity is a process as compared to a thing (Patvardhan et al., 2015). However, 
contrasting Thomas & Ritala (2021) who state that an ecosystem identity facilitates a mutual 
understanding of the ecosystem value proposition, we find that this can also be the other way 
around in which the process of defining the ecosystem value proposition of contributing towards 
sustainable development facilitates the creation of an ecosystem identity. 
During ecosystem emergence, business actors play a prominent role as they look for sustainable 
business opportunities, convince other stakeholders, and organize a coalition of the willing 
comprised of different societal actors, whereas the government plays a more supporting role with 
providing financing. Through discourse, the overall vision is defined by aligning different programs 
from business, government, and academia. For ecosystem development, processes are already 
more formalized and an independent platform organization has emerged that facilitates discussions 
among triple helix actors who have the same position. This also coincides with a change away from 
semi-coordinated and distributed ecosystem leadership towards a servant leadership model 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
179 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
(Russell, 2001), with the platform organization serving as a neutral foundation for strategic 
decision-making. While these practices relate to the cognitive dimension of feeling connected to a 
broader community with the same mission (Polletta & Jasper, 2001), we also find that the feeling 
of a sense of community is instilled by both civil and governmental actors that coordinate to build 
a common story and create cultural cohesiveness. Both the cognitive and cultural aspect of identity 
work are especially important during ecosystem emergence but must continue throughout 
ecosystem development. The creation of artefacts to communicate the common story, as well as 
achieving more success stories represents identity work that aims to reinforce ecosystem 
commitment in this phase.  
Fourth, we observe how contextual factors influence the emergence and development of 
sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems. While studies on innovation systems highlight the role of 
the triple helix model for regional development (Etzkowitz & Leydesdorff, 2000), and more recently 
embraced the quintuple helix model as an approach in line with sustainable development 
(Carayannis & Campbell, 2010), these have largely failed to include the entrepreneur as a core 
innovator due to their macro-level focus (Brannback et al., 2008). Our model offers insights into 
how context influences the intentions of individuals and shapes the interactions between industry, 
government, and universities to foster sustainable entrepreneurship. Through these triple helix 
collaborations, regional governments can act more entrepreneurially and facilitate the co-creation 
of markets for sustainable innovations (Mazzucato, 2011). We observe that these interactions do 
not only facilitate the creation of new ventures, as stressed in current entrepreneurial ecosystem 
research (Wurth et al., 2021) but also in the form of corporate entrepreneurship, which is novel. 
Our study does not come without the typical limitations of qualitative studies. As the case with 
interpretive research, the question of credibility, transferability, dependability, and confirmability 
generally arises (Lincoln & Guba, 1985). We have addressed these issues and provided a thick 
description to let readers assess the transferability of our findings. While ecosystem emergence 
and development may be highly context-specific, we believe that the processes discovered will also 
have relevance for other cases. Furthermore, the limitation of a recall effect that is inherent in 
retrospective studies (Mills et al., 2010) can be minimized by the fact that first-hand information 
could be obtained from those respondents that had direct involvement in ecosystem milestones 
that lie in the recent past.  
Conclusion 
We have put forward a theory of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem emergence and 
development. Despite the concept of entrepreneurial ecosystems having attracted significant 
interest from academics and practitioners, the majority of studies have focused on high-growth 
entrepreneurship, with a particular focus on metropolitan areas. With our study, we contribute to 
the understanding of how less-populated regions that have different challenges, resources, and 
ambitions from metropolitan areas can build an ecosystem around sustainable entrepreneurship. 
The comparative approach has allowed for a more diverse and comprehensive understanding of 
factors that lead to sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems. Besides the theoretical contributions, 
this study also offers both practical insights and avenues for further research.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
180 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
First, we have found that such ecosystem emergence and development can unfold in a bottom-up 
manner in which regional stakeholders take a leadership role and organize collective action. These 
stakeholders are driven by the motivation to help their own organization but they also want to 
serve the collective interest of contributing to the sustainable development of the region. The 
organizing efforts are most effective when such stakeholders are embedded in their economic and 
socio-cultural context and as such, have strong networks with other regional actors to identify and 
engage other entrepreneurs and innovators. 
Second, sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem emergence and development is only possible if 
policy makers play an active role. This means that they realize that entrepreneurs should take 
center stage for the sustainable regional development. As such, they not only provide financial 
means to ecosystem building activities but also participate in the formulation of a regional 
proposition that is reflected in concrete action plans. This requires that such stakeholders must not 
only align on their intentions but also have a mutual understanding of sustainability.  
Third, sustainable entrepreneurship does not emerge or develop in a vacuum. It takes actors from 
all spheres of the triple helix that must show commitment and actively collaborate to develop the 
institutional infrastructure to support sustainable entrepreneurs. These different actors 
understand the regional challenges, organize resources needed to address such, and measure 
progress. They are committed to supporting the region, willing to explore new ideas, and they 
pursue sustainable opportunities by identifying and leveraging the regional assets. While their 
interaction may be more informal and uncoordinated in early phases, it must formalize into more 
permanent structures in later stages, while still remaining open and flexible.  
Fourth, is imperative that a sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem identity emerges. This identity 
is closely is intertwined with the ecosystem value proposition and provides the background for 
action. This involves engagement with the wider public and creating a narrative that people can 
identify with. The achievement of success stories aids this process as it can create regional pride 
and help achieve to legitimacy through external recognition. 
From an ontological perspective, one can observe a sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem once 
there is a close community that is actively supporting sustainable entrepreneurship. We found that 
this support can materialize in both sustainable entrepreneurship initiatives of existing businesses 
but also in the form of newly founded sustainable ventures. Future research can build on our 
findings and assess their relevance for entrepreneurial ecosystems in other contexts and at 
different development stages. This can include established conventional entrepreneurial 
ecosystem that are starting to build a culture and infrastructure around sustainable 
entrepreneurship. Since our study has been of retrospective nature, we recommend pursuing 
longitudinal process research to study interactions in real-time as they develop. 
References 
Alvedalen, J., & Boschma, R. (2017). A critical review of entrepreneurial ecosystems research: Towards a 
future 
research 
agenda. 
European 
Planning 
Studies, 
25(6), 
887–903. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/09654313.2017.1299694 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
181 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Audretsch, D. B., & Belitski, M. (2021). Towards an entrepreneurial ecosystem typology for regional economic 
development: The role of creative class and entrepreneurship. Regional Studies, 55(4), 735–756. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/00343404.2020.1854711 
Audretsch, D. B., & Keilbach, M. (2004). Entrepreneurship and regional growth: An evolutionary 
interpretation. Journal of Evolutionary Economics, 14(5), 605–616. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00191-
004-0228-6 
Auschra, C., Schmidt, T., & Sydow, J. (2019). Entrepreneurial ecosystems as fields: Integrating meso-level 
institutional 
theory. 
Zeitschrift 
Für 
Wirtschaftsgeographie, 
63(2–4), 
64–78. 
https://doi.org/10.1515/zfw-2018-0016 
Autio, E., Nambisan, S., Thomas, L. D. W., & Wright, M. (2018). Digital affordances, spatial affordances, and 
the genesis of entrepreneurial ecosystems. Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal, 12(1), 72–95. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/sej.1266 
Bagnoli, A. (2009). Beyond the standard interview: The use of graphic elicitation and arts-based methods. 
Qualitative Research, 9(5), 547–570. https://doi.org/10.1177/1468794109343625 
Battilana, J., Leca, B., & Boxenbaum, E. (2009). How Actors Change Institutions: Towards a Theory of 
Institutional 
Entrepreneurship. 
Academy 
of 
Management 
Annals, 
3(1), 
65–107. 
https://doi.org/10.5465/19416520903053598 
Bell-Masterson, J., & Stangler, D. (2015). Measuring an Entrepreneurial Ecosystem. SSRN Electronic Journal. 
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2580336 
Berger, P. L., & Luckmann, T. (1966). The Social Construction of Reality: A treatise it’s the sociology of 
knowledge. Anchor Books. 
Bischoff, K. (2021). A study on the perceived strength of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems on the 
dimensions of stakeholder theory and culture. Small Business Economics, 56(3), 1121–1140. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-019-00257-3 
Bischoff, K., & Volkmann, C. K. (2018). Stakeholder support for sustainable entrepreneurship—A framework 
of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems. International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing, 10(2), 
172–201. https://doi.org/10.1504/IJEV.2018.092714 
Brannback, M., Carsrud, A., Jr., N. K., & Elfving, J. (2008). Challenging the triple helix model of regional 
innovation systems: A venture-centric model. International Journal of Technoentrepreneurship, 1(3), 
257. https://doi.org/10.1504/IJTE.2008.020539 
Bratman, M. (2014). Shared Agency: A Planning Theory of Acting Together. Oxford University Press. 
Carayannis, E. G., & Campbell, D. F. J. (2010). Triple Helix, Quadruple Helix and Quintuple Helix and How Do 
Knowledge, Innovation and the Environment Relate To Each Other? : A Proposed Framework for a 
Trans-disciplinary Analysis of Sustainable Development and Social Ecology. International Journal of 
Social 
Ecology 
and 
Sustainable 
Development 
(IJSESD), 
1(1), 
41–69. 
https://doi.org/10.4018/jsesd.2010010105 
Cavallo, A., Ghezzi, A., & Balocco, R. (2019). Entrepreneurial ecosystem research: Present debates and future 
directions. International Entrepreneurship and Management Journal, 15(4), 1291–1321. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11365-018-0526-3 
Charmaz, K. (2014). Constructing grounded theory (2nd edition). Sage. 
Cho, D. S., Ryan, P., & Buciuni, G. (2022). Evolutionary entrepreneurial ecosystems: A research pathway. Small 
Business Economics, 58(4), 1865–1883. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-021-00487-4 
Circulair Friesland. (2021). This Is the Circular Story of Friesland. https://circulairfriesland.frl/en/ 
Cohen, B. (2006). Sustainable valley entrepreneurial ecosystems. Business Strategy and the Environment, 
15(1), 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.428 
Colombelli, A., Paolucci, E., & Ughetto, E. (2019). Hierarchical and relational governance and the life cycle of 
entrepreneurial 
ecosystems. 
Small 
Business 
Economics, 
52(2), 
505–521. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-017-9957-4 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
182 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Colombo, M. G., Dagnino, G. B., Lehmann, E. E., & Salmador, M. (2019). The governance of entrepreneurial 
ecosystems. Small Business Economics, 52(2), 419–428. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-017-9952-
9 
DiVito, L., & Ingen-Housz, Z. (2021). From individual sustainability orientations to collective sustainability 
innovation and sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems. Small Business Economics, 56(3), 1057–
1072. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-019-00254-6 
Dodd, S., Anderson, A., & Jack, S. (2021). “Let them not make me a stone”—repositioning entrepreneurship. 
Journal of Small Business Management, 1-29. https://10.1080/00472778.2020.1867734 
Du, W. (Derek), Pan, S. L., Zhou, N., & Ouyang, T. (2018). From a marketplace of electronics to a digital 
entrepreneurial ecosystem (DEE): The emergence of a meta-organization in Zhongguancun, China. 
Information Systems Journal, 28(6), 1158–1175. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12176 
Eisenhardt, K. M., Graebner, M. E., & Sonenshein, S. (2016). Grand Challenges and Inductive Methods: Rigor 
without 
Rigor 
Mortis. 
Academy 
of 
Management 
Journal, 
59(4), 
1113–1123. 
https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2016.4004 
Elkington, J. (2006). Governance for Sustainability. Corporate Governance: An International Review, 14(6), 
522–529. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8683.2006.00527.x 
Enthoven, M. (2021). Unpacking opportunity recognition for sustainable entrepreneurship [Thesis fully 
internal (DIV), University of Groningen]. https://doi.org/10.33612/diss.160443584 
Etzkowitz, H., & Leydesdorff, L. (2000). The dynamics of innovation: From National Systems and “Mode 2” to 
a Triple Helix of university–industry–government relations. Research Policy, 29(2), 109–123. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0048-7333(99)00055-4 
Fachin, F. F., & Langley, A. (2018). Researching Organizational Concepts Processually: The Case of Identity. In 
C. Cassell, A. Cunliffe, & G. Grandy, The SAGE Handbook of Qualitative Business and Management 
Research 
Methods: 
History 
and 
Traditions 
(pp. 
308–326). 
SAGE 
Publications 
Ltd. 
https://doi.org/10.4135/9781526430212.n19 
Feld, B. (2012). Startup communities: Building an entrepreneurial ecosystem in your city. John Wiley & Sons, 
Inc. 
Feldman, M. P. (2014). The character of innovative places: Entrepreneurial strategy, economic development, 
and prosperity. Small Business Economics, 43(1), 9–20. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-014-9574-4 
Ferraro, F., Etzion, D., & Gehman, J. (2015). Tackling Grand Challenges Pragmatically: Robust Action Revisited. 
Organization Studies, 36(3), 363–390. https://doi.org/10.1177/0170840614563742 
French, C. (Ed.). (2022). Building Rural Community Resilience Through Innovation and Entrepreneurship: 
Building Rural Community Resilience Through Innovation and Entrepreneurship. Routledge. 
https://doi.org/10.4324/9781003178552 
Garrod, B., R. Wornell, and R. Youell. (2006). Re-Conceptualising Rural Resources as Countryside Capital: The 
Case of Rural Tourism. Journal of Rural Studies 22 (1), 117–128. doi:10.1016/j.jrurstud.2005.08.001 
Garud, R., Hardy, C., & Maguire, S. (2007). Institutional Entrepreneurship as Embedded Agency: An 
Introduction to the Special Issue. Organization Studies - ORGAN STUD, 28, 957–969. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0170840607078958 
Hoogendoorn, B., van der Zwan, P., & Thurik, R. (2019). Sustainable Entrepreneurship: The Role of Perceived 
Barriers and Risk. Journal of Business Ethics, 157(4), 1133–1154. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-
017-3646-8 
Isenberg, D. (2011). The entrepreneurship ecosystem strategy as a new paradigm for economy policy: 
Principles for cultivating entrepreneurship. Babson Entrepreneurship Ecosystem Project, Babson 
College, Babson Park: MA. 
Kapturkiewicz, A. (2021). Varieties of Entrepreneurial Ecosystems: A comparative study of Tokyo and 
Bangalore. Research Policy, 104377. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2021.104377 
King, B. (2008). A social movement perspective of stakeholder collective action and influence. Business & 
Society, 47(1), 21–49. 
Krueger, R. A., & Casey, M. A. (2015). Focus groups: A practical guide for applied research (5th edition). SAGE. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
183 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Lawrence, T. B., & Suddaby, R. (2006). Institutions and Institutional Work. In The SAGE Handbook of 
Organization 
Studies 
(pp. 
215–254). 
SAGE 
Publications 
Ltd. 
https://doi.org/10.4135/9781848608030.n7 
Levers, M. J. D. (2013). Philosophical paradigms, grounded theory, and perspectives on emergence. Sage 
Open, 3(4), https://doi.org/10.1177/2158244013517243 
Lincoln, Y. S., & Guba, E. G. (1985). Naturalistic inquiry. sage. 
Mack, E., & Mayer, H. (2016). The evolutionary dynamics of entrepreneurial ecosystems. Urban Studies, 
53(10), 2118–2133. https://doi.org/10.1177/0042098015586547 
Mason, C., & Brown, R. (2014). Entrepreneurial Ecosystems and Growth Oriented Entrepreneurship (p. 38). 
OECD. 
Mazzucato, M. (2011). The entrepreneurial state. Soundings, 49(49), 131–142. 
McKeever, E., Jack, S., & Anderson, A. (2015). Embedded entrepreneurship in the creative re-construction of 
place. Journal of Business Venturing, 30(1), 50–65. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusvent.2014.07.002 
McMullen, J. S., Brownell, K. M., & Adams, J. (2021). What Makes an Entrepreneurship Study Entrepreneurial? 
Toward A Unified Theory of Entrepreneurial Agency. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 45(5), 
1197–1238. https://doi.org/10.1177/1042258720922460 
Miles, M. P., & Morrison, M. (2020). An effectual leadership perspective for developing rural entrepreneurial 
ecosystems. Small Business Economics, 54(4), 933–949. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-018-0128-
z 
Mills, A., Durepos, G., & Wiebe, E. (2010). Longitudinal Research. In Encyclopedia of Case Study Research. 
SAGE Publications, Inc. https://doi.org/10.4135/9781412957397 
Mitra, J. (2019). Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Regional Development: An Introduction (2nd ed.). 
Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781315543130 
Moggi, S., Pierce, P., & Bernardi, N. (2021). From sustainability to thrivability: A novel framework for 
entrepreneurial ecosystems. International Entrepreneurship and Management Journal, 1–25. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11365-021-00787-x 
Motoyama, Y., & Knowlton, K. (2017). Examining the Connections within the Startup Ecosystem: A Case Study 
of St. Louis. Entrepreneurship Research Journal, 7(1). https://doi.org/10.1515/erj-2016-0011 
Müller, S. (2016). A progress review of entrepreneurship and regional development: What are the remaining 
gaps? 
European 
Planning 
Studies, 
24(6), 
1133–1158. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/09654313.2016.1154506 
Muñoz, P., & Kimmitt, J. (2019). Rural entrepreneurship in place: An integrated framework. Entrepreneurship 
& Regional Development, 31(9-10), 842–873. https://doi.org/10.1080/08985626.2019.1609593  
O’Shea, G., Farny, S., & Hakala, H. (2019). The buzz before business: A design science study of a sustainable 
entrepreneurial ecosystem. Small Business Economics, 1–24. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-019-
00256-4 
Patvardhan, S. D., Gioia, D. A., & Hamilton, A. L. (2015). Weathering a Meta-Level Identity Crisis: Forging a 
Coherent Collective Identity for an Emerging Field. Academy of Management Journal, 58(2), 405–
435. https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2012.1049 
Patzelt, H., & Shepherd, D. A. (2011). Recognizing opportunities for sustainable development. 
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 35(4), 631–652. 
Pennewaard, M. (2018, December 8). De Friese paradox: Gelukkig met minder? Leeuwarder Courant. 
https://lc.nl/friesland/De-Friese-paradox-gelukkig-met-minder-23921030.html 
Pitelis, C. (2012). Clusters, entrepreneurial ecosystem co-creation, and appropriability: A conceptual 
framework. 
Industrial 
and 
Corporate 
Change. 
https://academic.oup.com/icc/article-
abstract/21/6/1359/653144 
Pittz, T. G., White, R., & Zoller, T. (2019). Entrepreneurial ecosystems and social network centrality: The power 
of regional dealmakers. Small Business Economics. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-019-00228-8 
Polletta, F., & Jasper, J. (2001). Collective Identity in Social Movements. Annu. Rev. Sociol, 27, 283–305. 
https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.soc.27.1.283 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
184 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Reynolds, J. (2022). Building an Entrepreneurial Ecosystem to Catalyze Innovation in Rural Places. In Building 
Rural Community Resilience Through Innovation and Entrepreneurship. Routledge. 
Roundy, P. (2017). " Small Town " Entrepreneurial Ecosystems: Implications for Developed and Emerging 
Economies. Journal of Entrepreneurship in Emerging Economies, 9. https://doi.org/10.1108/JEEE-09-
2016-0040 
Roundy, P. T., Bradshaw, M., & Brockman, B. K. (2018). The emergence of entrepreneurial ecosystems: A 
complex 
adaptive 
systems 
approach. 
Journal 
of 
Business 
Research, 
86, 
1–10. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2018.01.032 
Russell, R. F. (2001). The role of values in servant leadership. Leadership & Organization Development Journal, 
22(2), 76–84. https://doi.org/10.1108/01437730110382631 
Schaltegger, S., & Wagner, M. (2011). Sustainable entrepreneurship and sustainability innovation: Categories 
and 
interactions. 
Business 
Strategy 
and 
the 
Environment, 
20(4), 
222–237. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.682 
Shi, X., & Shi, Y. (2021). Unpacking the process of resource allocation within an entrepreneurial ecosystem. 
Research Policy, 104378. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2021.104378 
Spigel, B. (2017). The Relational Organization of Entrepreneurial Ecosystems. Entrepreneurship Theory and 
Practice, 41(1), 49–72. https://doi.org/10.1111/etap.12167 
Spigel, B. (Ed.). (2018). Envisioning a New Research Agenda for Entrepreneurial Ecosystems: Top-down and 
Bottom-up Approaches. In Reflections and Extensions on Key Papers of the First Twenty-Five Years 
of Advances (Vol. 20). Emerald Publishing Limited. https://doi.org/10.1108/S1074-7540201820 
Spigel, B., & Harrison, R. (2018). Toward a process theory of entrepreneurial ecosystems. Strategic 
Entrepreneurship Journal, 12(1), 151–168. https://doi.org/10.1002/sej.1268 
Stam, E. (2015). Entrepreneurial Ecosystems and Regional Policy: A Sympathetic Critique. European Planning 
Studies, 23(9), 1759–1769. https://doi.org/10.1080/09654313.2015.1061484 
Stam, E., & Bosma, N. (2015). Local Policies for High-Growth Firms. In D. B. Audretsch, A. N. Link, & M. Walshok 
(Eds.), The Oxford handbook of local competitiveness (pp. 286–305). Oxford University Press. 
Stam, E., & van de Ven, A. (2019). Entrepreneurial ecosystem elements. Small Business Economics. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-019-00270-6 
Startup Genome. (2020). The Global Startup Ecosystem Report GSER 2020: The New Normal for the Global 
Startup Economy and the Impact of COVID-19. Startup Genome. 
Sternberg, R. (2021). Entrepreneurship and geography—Some thoughts about a complex relationship. The 
Annals of Regional Science. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00168-021-01091-w 
Strauss, A. L., & Corbin, J. M. (1998). Basics of qualitative research: Techniques and procedures for developing 
grounded theory (2nd ed). Sage Publications. 
Szerb, L., Lafuente, E., Horváth, K., & Páger, B. (2019). The relevance of quantity and quality entrepreneurship 
for regional performance: The moderating role of the entrepreneurial ecosystem. Regional Studies, 
53(9), 1308–1320. https://doi.org/10.1080/00343404.2018.1510481 
Theodoraki, C., Dana, L.-P., & Caputo, A. (2021). Building sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems: A holistic 
approach. 
Journal 
of 
Business 
Research, 
S0148296321008134. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2021.11.005 
Theodoraki, C., Messeghem, K., & Rice, M. P. (2018). A social capital approach to the development of 
sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems: An explorative study. Small Business Economics, 51(1), 
153–170. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-017-9924-0 
Thomas, L. D. W., & Ritala, P. (2021). Ecosystem Legitimacy Emergence: A Collective Action View. Journal of 
Management, 014920632098661. https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206320986617 
Thompson, T. A., Purdy, J. M., & Ventresca, M. J. (2018). How entrepreneurial ecosystems take form: Evidence 
from social impact initiatives in Seattle. Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal, 12(1), 96–116. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/sej.1285 
United Nations. (2018). The 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals: An opportunity for Latin 
America and the Caribbean (LC/G. 2681-P/Rev. 3). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
185 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Van de Ven, A. H., Sapienza, H. J., & Villanueva, J. (2007). Entrepreneurial pursuits of self- and collective 
interests. Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal, 1(3–4), 353–370. https://doi.org/10.1002/sej.34 
Van Langevelde, A., & Pellenbarg, P. (2001). What’s in a Frisian business name? Regional identity in the 
Netherlands. 
Tijdschrift 
Voor 
Economische 
En 
Sociale 
Geografie, 
92(3), 
309–323. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-9663.00159 
Volkmann, C., Fichter, K., Klofsten, M., & Audretsch, D. B. (2021). Sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems: An 
emerging 
field 
of 
research. 
Small 
Business 
Economics, 
56(3), 
1047–1055. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-019-00253-7 
Walsh, J., & Winsor, B. (2019). Socio-cultural barriers to developing a regional entrepreneurial ecosystem. 
Journal of Enterprising Communities: People and Places in the Global Economy, 13(3), 263–282. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/JEC-11-2018-0088 
Weber, K., & King, B. (2013). Oxford Handbook of Sociology, Social Theory and Organization Studies. 
Welter, F., Trettin, L., & Neumann, U. (2008). Fostering entrepreneurship in distressed urban 
neighbourhoods. International Entrepreneurship and Management Journal, 4(2), 109–128. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11365-007-0069-5 
Wurth, B., Stam, E., & Spigel, B. (2021). Toward an Entrepreneurial Ecosystem Research Program. 
Entrepreneurship 
Theory 
and 
Practice, 
1042258721998948. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1042258721998948 
Yin, R. K. (2018). Case study research and applications: Design and methods (6th ed.). SAGE. 
York, J. G., & Venkataraman, S. (2010). The entrepreneur–environment nexus: Uncertainty, innovation, and 
allocation. 
Journal 
of 
Business 
Venturing, 
25(5), 
449–463. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusvent.2009.07.007 
Zahra, S. A., Gedajlovic, E., Neubaum, D. O., & Shulman, J. M. (2009). A typology of social entrepreneurs: 
Motives, search processes and ethical challenges. Journal of Business Venturing, 24(5), 519–532. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
186 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 1: A process model of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem emergence and development 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
187 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure A1: Data structure 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
188 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Appendix A 
 
Friesland Entrepreneurial Ecosystem maturity Focus Group 1 
Friesland Entrepreneurial Ecosystem maturity Focus Group 2 
 
Uckermark/Barnim Entrepreneurial Ecosystme maturity Focus Group 1 
 
 
Ostrobothnia Entrepreneurial Ecosystme maturity Focus Group 1 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
189 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Table A1: Case description and context information. 
Friesland 
Uckermark/Barnim 
Ostrobothnia 
Friesland is a rural province 
in the Northern Netherlands 
that is defined by its eleven-
city structure and its various 
streams, lakes, and canals. It 
is a minority language region 
and there is a relatively 
strong regional identification 
of firms in Friesland with 
their region and Frisian 
identity (Van Langevelde & 
Pellenbarg, 2001). The 
Frisian economy is mostly 
devoted to agriculture and it 
largely consists of small to 
medium-sized enterprises. 
While Friesland performs 
low on economic indicators, 
it scores high on numerous 
welfare indicators, such as 
happiness, which has been 
labelled the ‘Frisian paradox’ 
(Pennewaard, 2018). 
Furthermore, Friesland is at 
the forefront of the 
transition towards a circular 
economy, striving to become 
the most circular region in 
Europe by 2025 (Circulair 
Friesland, 2021). 
The focus group discussions 
have established that 
Friesland is in an advanced 
birth stage of 
entrepreneurial ecosystem 
development (see Appendix 
A). 
The Uckermark/Barnim 
Entrepreneurial Ecosystem is 
located between the 
metropolitan areas of Berlin, 
the capital of Germany, and 
Stettin, a Polish border town. 
While the OECD LEED 
programme attested to the 
Uckermark the existence of (1) 
support for business start-up, 
(2) initiatives to promote 
entrepreneurial culture, and 
(3) observed examples of in-
migrating entrepreneurs 
(Potter, 2006), the observed 
entrepreneurial activity is 
today average or below. While 
more than two-thirds of the 
companies participating in the 
business survey for Recode-
Uckermark consider the local 
start-up scene and the start-
up-related framework 
conditions to be important or 
rather important for their own 
company, they are in majority 
dissatisfied or less satisfied 
with the regional start-up 
scene and start-up-related 
framework conditions. 
New initiatives like the meBEST 
campus or Stadt Land Oder aim 
to step into the void and – with 
the support and based on the 
initiatve of regional 
stakeholders – aim at enabling 
more sustainable 
entrepreneurship. 
Ostrobothnia is a region in 
western Finland consisting of 
15 municipalities with the city 
of Vaasa as the regional 
center (Regional Council of 
Ostrobothnia, 2021). 
Ostrobothnia has good 
prerequisites for developing 
into a sustainable society 
where business is based on 
sustainable development 
goals and the circular 
economy (Vaasa Region 
Development Company, 
2021).  
The development of the 
region’s sustainable 
entrepreneurial ecosystem is 
at the growth stage because 
there is a growing perception 
among regional policymakers 
about the need to build a 
sustainable entrepreneurial 
ecosystem; there is growing 
support of sustainable 
entrepreneurship from 
support organizations; there 
is also a growing number of 
sustainability-driven new 
firms and sustainability 
initiatives among existing 
firms. 
This has been confirmed by 
the focus group discussion 
that has established that 
Ostrobothnia is in an early 
stage of entrepreneurial 
ecosystem development (see 
Appendix A).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
190 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The focus group discussions 
have established that 
Uckermark/Barnim is – 
according to the stakeholder 
perspectives – between birth 
and growth stage of the 
entrepreneurial ecosystem 
development (see Appendix A). 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
191 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Framing the Social Innovation 
Ecosystem  
A systematic literature review 
Irene Paoletti1, Alessia Pisoni2* 
1University of Pavia; 2University of Insubria 
*alessia.pisoni@uninsubria.it  
Abstract 
Social innovation (SI) is increasingly attracting the interest of scholars, institutions, and practitioners 
due to its potential to tackle societal challenges. Literature on the topic appears highly fragmented 
and scattered among different fields of research. In the attempt of systematizing contributions so-
far published, we’ve performed a systematic literature review with the aim to enhance our 
comprehension about ecosystems facilitating social innovative activities. In doing so, we describe 
the key attributes and features of the context and the conditions under which SI is developed. 
Keywords  
Social Innovation (SI), Ecosystem, Social Innovation Ecosystem (SIE).  
Introduction  
Social Innovation (SI) has recently emerged in entrepreneurship and management literature as the 
“mean” to provide “new solutions to meet social goals” (Mulgan et al., 2007). Seeking to empower 
SI and make these solutions scalable, scholarly research has recently suggested the need to adopt 
an ecosystem perspective, which could be particularly useful in highlighting the interdependence 
between different actors in co-production and co-creation of value. In this scenario, some authors 
suggest studying SI as an “innovation process” - focusing on “who” can do it, and “how” and 
“where” it is done (Edwards-Schachter et al., 2012; Edwards-Schachter & Wallace, 2017) - involving 
multitude of actors (Phillips et al., 2015) and knowledge resources (McElroy, 2002).  
In this respect, the Social Innovation Ecosystem (SIE) should enable socially innovative initiatives by 
providing actors the opportunities, the possibilities, the means and the authorities, i.e. governance 
mechanisms, that allow access to resources to pursue their innovative activities (Pel et al., 2020; 
Terstriep et al., 2020; Galego et al., 2021). Most of the academic literature agrees about the 
relevance played by the context, categorizing social innovation as “highly context-sensitive” 
(Moulaert et al., 2007; Kaletka et al., 2016; Asheim & Gertler, 2005). Even though SIEs entail - as 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
192 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
“Innovation Ecosystems” (Granstrand & Holgersson, 2020), “Regional Innovation System” and 
“National Systems of Innovation” (Terstriep et al., 2020; Rao-Nicholson et al., 2017) - some 
attributes such as the institutional infrastructure supporting innovation, they also enclose some 
elements of novelty. First, it has been recognized that SI brings the ambition of overcoming the 
local context and extending its processes to make them inclusive for the population (Unceta et al., 
2016). Accordingly, SI initiatives have been analyzed as embedded systems of collective actors all 
involved in “dynamic arenas” of development (Jørgensen, 2012). Finally, the social goals driving all 
the relations among actors distinguish the SIEs from generic innovation ecosystems. 
The main challenge for scholars within this field of research, is to retrieve the key features of the 
existing initiatives supporting SI, to build a shared framework that could help in identifying critical 
underlying conditions and common solutions to tackle societal challenges. Despite the progress 
recently made in this direction, our comprehension about ecosystems facilitating social innovative 
activities remains vague and ambiguous (Terstiep et al., 2020) and there is still a need for further 
analysis that investigates the key findings of the literature in the SI field of research adopting a 
holistic/ecosystem perspective. 
In this respect, this study represents a preliminary contribution to extant literature by answering 
the following two research questions: 1) Which are the relevant themes so far identified in the SI 
literature adopting a holistic/ecosystem perspective?; 2) Which are the key elements that 
characterize Social Innovation Ecosystems? In the attempt to provide an answer to these questions, 
we opted for a systematic approach to review the literature on the topic. 
Method and data 
As said, preliminary research showed a fragmentated literature scattered among different research 
areas. To provide a systematization of the contributions on the topic under investigation, we 
perform a systematic literature review (SLR) by following Tranfied et al. (2003) guidelines. 
The keywords were selected based on the pre-acquired knowledge (Howaldt & Kopp, 2012; Nicholls  
et al., 2015; Domanski et al., 2020) and a brainstorming within the research team. Scopus and Web 
of Science were chosen as database of records. We conducted our search on title, abstract and/or 
keywords using the following terms: “social innovation” and “ecosystem” or “system” or 
“framework”. To obtain publications embracing a holistic view of the social innovation 
phenomenon we also included the terms “system” or “framework” as synonyms of ecosystem. The 
bibliographic research was conducted according to the following limitation criteria: i) only articles 
in the “business”, “management”, “economics” and “social sciences” categories; ii) only articles 
written in English, to facilitate comparison of different works; iii) only articles published in academic 
journals. 
We retrieved 765 articles from Scopus and 629 articles from Web of Science, in total 1394 
articles. We first identified and removed 402 duplicate articles and then,  initiated the screening 
phase (see Figure 1). We first screened these documents through their abstracts and then, by 
reading the full text articles, we excluded all the contributions that were unrelated to our research 
objective. We          ended up with 192 articles (see Table I in the Annex) which have been coded 
according to bibliometric information, methodology and main objective/research goal. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
193 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 1: SLR flow diagram 
 
Results 
“Which are the relevant themes so far identified in the SI literature adopting a holistic/ecosystem 
perspective?” and more specifically “Which are the key elements that characterize Social 
Innovation Ecosystems?” are the main questions guiding the systematic literature review 
performed in this study.  
We performed, as a first step, some descriptive analysis of the selected contributions that reveal a 
substantial “growth” of the literature about SI and ecosystem related features over the years. 
Specifically, in the past six year, scholars are increasingly devoting their attention to contextual-
related (“ecosystem”, “system” and “framework”) aspects/factors to study SI processes. In 
addition, by categorizing studies according to the adopted methodology, we identified that 
empirical studies account for two third of the selected contributions (single case studies are the 
most adopted, followed by multi setting case studies, while only a small percentage is based on 
quantitative study or mixed methods). The remaining articles are based on theoretical or 
conceptual methodology. 
The content analysis performed on the selected contributions reveals that research on SI and 
Ecosystems’ related features could be categorized mainly into four major areas: i) areas of 
intervention; ii) context features; iii) key involved actors and their relations; and iv) the role of 
technology as key resource. We devote one paragraph to each of the four dimensions above-
mentioned. 
Areas of intervention 
This category includes the SI-related activities and their goals (Table 1). Some authors (Tracey & 
Stott, 2016; Wittmayer et al., 2019; Pless et al., 2021) point out that the social areas of intervention 
are represented by “social and societal challenges”. Society itself represents the most common 
target to achieve, when dealing with SIE. More specifically, the initiatives can be directed to achieve 
Records 
identified 
through Scopus 
(n=  765)
Records
identified
through WOS 
(n= 629)
Full text articles assessed 
(n=283)
Records excluded
(n= 703)
Records screened on title and abstract 
(n= 992)
Records excluded
(n= 90)
Records included in the review
(n=192)
Duplicates removal

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
194 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
diverse societal outcomes. A first group of objectives is related to the end of any forms of poverty 
(Marakkath & Attuel-Mendes, 2015; Chiodo, 2021; Uzsayilir & Baycan, 2021), a second one to 
achieve food security (Edwards & Mercer, 2010; Rover et al., 2016; Prost et al., 2019), followed by 
the warranty of healthy lives (Ballard et al., 2017; Ahmed et al., 2021), and the reduction of 
inequalities (Weinzierl et al., 2016; Svidronova et al., 2017; Otten et al., 2021), such as gender 
disparities (Kluvánková et al., 2019). Based on the reach of the intervention, social innovations can 
either tackle a specific social issue affecting a small group of individuals or major structural issues 
affecting a vast group of people with large-scale effects (Tabaklar et al., 2021). 
 
Table 1: Areas of intervention – Key findings 
Main topic 
Key aspects 
Main references 
Areas of 
intervention 
To achieve diverse “social and societal 
challenges”, the literature describes the 
areas of interventions with a: 
•Focus on outcome, as based on the SI-
related goals: 
end of any forms of poverty 
achievement of food security 
warranty of healthy lives 
reduction of inequalities 
•Focus on development scale, as based on 
the reach of the interventions:  
local  
global   
Adham et al., 2018; Aksoy et al., 2019; 
Andion et al., 2021; Arocena & Sutz, 2021; 
Baker & Mehmood, 2015; Bittencourt & 
Ronconi, 
2016; 
Chatzichristos 
& 
Nagopoulos, 2020; Chiodo, 2021; Cornet 
& Barpanda, 2020; Coulson & Woods, 
2021; Dahlke et al., 2021; Dayson, 2017; 
Farmer et al., 2021; Guerrero & Urbano, 
2020; Hart et al., 2015; Hebinck et al., 
2019; Hiteva & Sovacool, 2021; Jensen & 
Brandi, 
2018; 
Kruckenberg, 
2015; 
Lombardi et al., 2020; Ludvig et al., 2021; 
Maher & Hazenberg, 2021; Malek & 
Costa, 2015; Marchesi & Tweed, 2021; 
Ornetzeder, 2001; Parziale & Scotti, 2016; 
Pel & Kemp, 2020; Peter, 2021; Prost et 
al., 2019; Ravazzoli et al., 2021; Rhodes et 
al., 2021; Schröer, 2021; Sept, 2020; 
Super et al., 2021; Svidronova et al., 2017; 
Tracey & Stott, 2016; Unceta et al., 2020; 
Uzsayilir & Baycan, 2021; Warnecke, 
2016; Widyaningsih & Van den Broeck, 
2021. 
Source: own elaboration 
Context features 
As expected, by approaching the SI topic under the holistic/ecosystem perspective, the vast 
majority of the selected articles focus on context-related issues. In other words, the “context” is 
used as a general framework to understand the origins of SI practices/interventions (Table 2). 
According to van Wijk et al. (2019), the context can have an institutional connotation and include 
wide societal level of institutions as democracy, capitalism, poverty, and exclusion. Within the 
institutional context, socially innovative processes can be fueled and hindered as in a dynamic arena 
(Onsongo, 2019; Živojinović et al., 2019; Agostini et al., 2020). Social innovation is described as a 
social shared competence that is dependent on the context, which refers to changes in the agenda 
and the agency of the institutions, and which leads to a better inclusion of groups and individuals 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
195 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
who are marginalized in various fields of society at various scales of organization (Flores & Zapata, 
2018; Guerrero & Urbano, 2020).  
SIE interventions are frequently associated to a particular local area or region. Very often, they are 
negotiated on a local level by agents and organizations with a strong sense of place (Sarala, 2014; 
Kluvánková et al., 2018; Sept, 2020; de Fátima Ferreiro et al., 2021; Edwards & Mercer, 2010). 
However, sometimes they can have a national breadth of application (Nemec et al., 2016; Windrum 
et al., 2016), or they can overcome the national borders to get an international impact (Charalabidis 
et al., 2014; Van Rensburg et al., 2019; Ruszkai et al., 2021). 
Table 2: Context Features – Key findings 
Main topic 
Key aspects 
Main references 
Context 
features 
To approach the context as a “framework” to 
understand the origins of SI practices and 
interventions. The context itself can be 
characterized by: 
•Institutional connotation, including wide 
societal levels of institutions 
•Social connotation, referring to individuals 
and groups in various fields of society 
•Territorial connotation, pointing out a 
specific local, national, or international level 
Agostini et al., 2020; Andion et al., 2020; 
Anggahegari et al., 2018; Batle et al., 
2018; Bittencourt & Ronconi, 2016; 
Bosworth et al., 2016; Bozic, 2021; 
Canestrino et al., 2019; Chatfield & 
Reddick, 2016; Chiodo, 2021; Cipolla et 
al., 2021; Cornet & Barpanda, 2020; 
Cristofalo et al., 2019; de Fátima Ferreiro 
et al., 2021; Edwards & Mercer, 2010; 
Flores & Zapata, 2018; Gallouj et al., 2021; 
Kadyrova, 2021; Kranzeeva et al., 2021; 
Lindberg et al., 2016; Lubberink et al., 
2019; Ludvig et al., 2021; Marakkath & 
Attuel-Mendes, 2015; Morelli et al., 2017; 
Nicolopoulou et al., 2021; Novikova, 
2021; Parahoo & Al-Nakeeb, 2019; 
Petersen & Kruss, 2021; Rao-Nicholson et 
al., 2017; Rizzo et al., 2021; van Wijk et al., 
2019; Živojinović et al., 2019. 
Source: own elaboration 
Key involved actors and their relations 
SIEs involve a wide constellation of actors. We identified the following categories of actors: public 
sector, civil society, and private sector (Table 3). The first category comprises mainly government, 
public administrations, local and national authorities, and academia; the second group involves 
citizens, social movements, NGOs; the third includes corporations, SMEs, and startups. Actors are 
at the heart of SI initiatives, since they are the main initiative’s developer, i.e. the ones who 
conceive and implement social solutions.  
Through the provision of public services at the national and local levels, government has typically 
played a significant role in the creation of societal value. Public policies are considered a tool for 
achieving this aim (Romanelli & Zbuchea, 2021; Ludvig et al., 2021). Universities also actively 
participate in SI activities. They are described as the drivers of knowledge sharing and experimental 
learning (Belcher et al., 2021; Greene, 2021; Mdleleni, 2021).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
196 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 3: Key involved actors and their relations – Key findings 
Main topic 
Key aspects 
Main references 
Key 
involved 
actors 
and 
their relations 
To 
identify 
the 
“macro 
categories” of: 
•Involved actors 
Public sector (Government, 
public administrations, local 
and 
national 
authorities, 
academia) 
Civil society (Citizens, Social 
Movements, NGOs) 
Private sector (Corporations, 
SMEs, Startups) 
•Their relations 
Public Private Partnerships 
Cross Sector Partnerships 
Strategic Alliances 
Agostini et al., 2020; Ahmed et al., 2021; Alijani et al., 
2016; Amanatidou et al., 2021; Arocena & Sutz, 2021; 
Avelino et al., 2019; 2020; Ballard et al., 2017; Bayuo et 
al., 2020; Belcher et al., 2021; Bellandi et al., 2021; 
Benneworth & Cunha, 2015; Ber & Branzei, 2010; Bigger 
et al., 2016; Biggs et al., 2010; Bright & Godwin, 2010; 
Broad & Ortiz, 2021; Bublitz et al., 2021; Cacciolatti, 2019; 
Carayannis et al., 2021; Castro-Spila, 2018; 2021; 
Chatzichristos & Nagopoulos, 2020; Chin et al., 2019; 
Correia et al., 2015; Cossetta & Palumbo, 2014; de Fátima 
Ferreiro et al., 2021; Desa & Koch, 2014; Diniz & Leitão, 
2016; Farmer et al., 2021; Gasparin et al., 2021; Greene, 
2021; Guerrero & Urbano, 2020; Gupta et al., 2016; 
Harrisson et al., 2012; Henderson, 1993; Holmström Lind 
et al., 2020; Jing & Gong, 2012; Kim, 2021; Klievink & 
Janssen, 2014; Kluvánková et al., 2019; Komatsu et al., 
2016; 2020; Kranzeeva et al., 2021; Kumari et al., 2020; 
Lee et al., 2021; Lind et al., 2018; Lukesch et al., 2020; 
Lythberg et al., 2021; Malek & Costa, 2015; Marchesi & 
Tweed, 2021; Martens et al., 2020; Martini et al., 2017; 
Mazzarella et al., 2021; McKelvey & Zaring, 2018; 
Mdleleni, 2021; Mejia et al., 2019; Mirvis & Googins, 
2018; Morawska-Jancelewicz, 2021; Mulyaningsih et al., 
2016; Okano, 2017; Onsongo, 2019; Otten et al., 2021; 
Parthasarathy et al., 2021; Pel et al., 2020; Pellicer-Sifres 
et al., 2017; Petersen & Kruss, 2021; Piccarozzi, 2018; 
Presenza et al., 2019; Prost et al., 2019; Purcell et al., 
2019; Rao-Nicholson et al., 2017;  Rehfeld & Terstriep, 
2016; Richter & Christmann, 2021; Romanelli & Zbuchea, 
2021; Rover et al., 2016; Ruszkai et al., 2021; Sabato & 
Verschraegen, 2019; Sacchi, 2019; Sanzo-Pérez & Álvarez-
González, 2021; Satrustegui et al., 2017; Segarra-Oña et 
al., 2016; Sept, 2021; Seyfang & Haxeltine, 2012; Slimane 
& Lamine, 2018; Spinelli et al., 2018; Super et al., 2021; 
Tabaklar et al., 2021; Terstriep et al., 2020; Tortia et al., 
2021; Ulug & Horlings, 2018; Unceta et al., 2020; 2021; 
Van Rensburg et al., 2019; von Jacobi et al., 2017; 
Windrum et al., 2016; Yang & Sung, 2015; Ziegler, 2017; 
Živojinović et al., 2019. 
Source: own elaboration 
Literature also stresses the role of civil society in promoting SI, showing the importance of 
individuals’ and communities’ direct participation and active role (Seyfang & Haxeltine, 2012; 
Chiodo, 2021). More in general, civil society strengthens coalitions and networks with other 
organizations or institutions to receive benefits, such as connecting ideas, people, and resources. 
Literature also points out a growing interest in SI by profit-oriented actors since social and 
environmental considerations are having a greater impact on their bottom line. Through the 
adoption of business models sustaining SI, organizations promote sustainable growth while also 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
197 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
addressing social, cultural, and environmental issues (Gasparin et al., 2021; Lind et al., 2018). The 
private actor collaborates with other stakeholders in the search for novel ways of connecting with 
the public sector (mainly through public private partnerships (PPP) - Klievink & Janssen, 2014) and 
civil society, as well as with other organizations that share similar goals. 
Despite startups’ potential to address numerous societal challenges and boost SI (European 
Commission, 2021), they have been so-far disregarded by SI literature (Batle et al., 2018; Cacciolatti 
et al., 2020).  
The role of technology as a key resource  
The literature review also reveals the increasing role of technological innovation as a valuable 
resource for SIEs. In this respect, digital technologies are increasingly attracting the interest of 
scholar, because of their role in shaping SI processes (Table 4). Specifically, we group these articles 
according to the specific functions of the technology. In the first group, technology is seen as a 
supporter of the SI process. Supporting technologies allows the creation of a collaborative 
environment which can create experimental learning, which enables users to take active part in the 
research, development, and innovation process (Cossetta & Palumbo, 2014; Spinelli et al., 2018). 
Platforms are regarded as the point of interaction between actors. Crowdfunding platforms may 
represent an example. Recently, scholars in the field start to examine them as a way for 
empowering the financing of projects by soliciting investment, creating at the same time greater 
legitimacy for social enterprises by promoting early societal interaction and participation (Presenza 
et al., 2019; Cacciolatti et al., 2019; Marakkath & Attuel-Mendes, 2015). The second group of 
contributions examines the technology’s role as a catalyst for SI. A clear example is the use of 
various combinations of online platforms and the configuration of online communities and their 
relationships with offline communities (Temmerman et al., 2021; Živojinović et al., 2019). By 
allowing new forms of bottom-up and decentralized collaboration, they have the potential to open 
up vast new fields of SI that we have only begun to glimpse, but do not fully understand (Sept, 
2020). 
 Table 4: Role of technology– Key findings 
Source: own elaboration 
 
Main topic 
Key aspects 
Main references 
Role of 
technology 
To evaluate the “function” played by 
technology in SI processes as: 
•Supporting technology, as a solution to 
create a collaborative environment and to 
favor interactions among the players 
•Enabling technology, as a catalyst for the 
configuration of SI interventions, to create 
customized solutions 
Carl, 2020; Charalabidis et al., 2014; Cossetta & 
Palumbo, 2014; Dahlke et al., 2021; De Filippi et 
al., 2017; De Rosa, 2017; Füller et al., 2012; 
Hsuan et al., 2019; Kohler & Chesbrough, 2021; 
Morrar et al., 2021; Onsongo, 2019; Oomens & 
Scholten, 2020; Ornetzeder, 2001; Presenza et 
al., 2019; Sanzo-Pérez et al., 2015; Sept, 2020; 
Spinelli et al., 2018; Temmerman et al., 2021; 
Van Rensburg et al., 2019; Vasin et al., 2016; 
Vézina et al., 2019; Warnecke, 2016. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
198 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Conclusion and future research directions  
Academic literature on Social Innovation Ecosystems is still embryonic and highly interdisciplinary. 
The SLR we conducted reveals first of all, an increasing number of contributions published on the 
topic in recent years, thus signaling the increasing interest of scholar in this field of research. The 
SLR allows to identify four main themes useful for identifying a tentative framework for SIEs: i) areas 
of interventions; ii) context features; iii) key involved actors and their relations; iv) the increasing 
role of technology as a key resource.  
A paragraph was devoted to each theme to grasp the variety of ecosystem components. More 
specifically, the potential areas of interventions in SIEs are inherent to societal needs and can be 
identified within the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. These can either be the core of local 
development initiatives or larger scale interventions. As regards the context features, the 
institutional framework, including either formal or informal institutions, is the one mainly adopted 
by scholars and emphasizes the multidimensional and complex nature of the ecosystem. The third 
theme corresponds to the description of the actors involved in the social innovation ecosystem. 
The emergence of a wide constellations of players and the fact that each of them is never 
responsible of developing these initiatives alone, shape the collective nature of the initiatives and 
bring to identify groups, partnerships, or networks, in which most of the actors are involved. Last 
but not least, the increasing role of technological innovation to boost SI. 
Although in the format of short paper, this contribution has provided a preliminary overview of the 
main themes arising from the literature that could be useful to understand “how” SIEs work. 
However, there are still further steps to be implemented. First of all, the SLR also reveals a recently 
emerging interest of scholars and practitioners in understanding the role that startups aiming at 
pursuing social goals play in SI processes and in the ecosystem. Moreover, being startups often 
technology-oriented, future research could shed new light about emergent opportunities offered 
by the use of technology as supporter or enabler in pursuing social needs. This further step will be 
instrumental in achieving a deeper comprehension of SIEs along with a deeper assessment of the 
interplay among the existing socially innovative actors, and the importance of engaging in synergic 
collaborations in such a dynamic arena. Despite the difficulties in mapping the multifaceted 
dimensions of SIEs, and the further research needed to shed new light on the topic under 
investigation by adopting a holist perspective, our findings could represent a starting point for 
further research aiming to support the decision-making process of both practitioners and policy 
makers involved in the development of local initiatives or larger scale interventions. 
References 
Desmarchelier, B., Djellal, F., & Gallouj, F. (2020 Mapping social innovation networks: Knowledge intensive 
social services as systems builders. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 157, 120068. 
Domanski, D., Howaldt, J., & Kaletka, C. (2020) A comprehensive concept of social innovation and its 
implications for the local context–on the growing importance of social innovation ecosystems and 
infrastructures. European Planning Studies, 28 (3), 454-474. 
Edwards-Schachter, M., & Wallace, M. L. (2017) ‘Shaken, but not stirred’: Sixty years of defining social 
innovation. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 119, 64-79. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
199 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
European 
Commission 
(2021) 
European 
Social 
Innovators’ 
Insight 
Report. 
Available 
from: 
https://eusic.challenges.org/the-european-social-innovators-insight-report/. 
Galego, D., Moulaert, F., Brans, M., & Santinha, G. (2021) Social innovation & governance: a scoping review. 
Innovation: The European Journal of Social Science Research, 1-26. 
Goldstein, J., Hazy, J. K., & Silberstang, J. (2010) A complexity science model of social innovation in social 
enterprise. Journal of Social Entrepreneurship, 1 (1), 101-125. 
Granstrand, O., & Holgersson, M. (2020) Innovation ecosystems: A conceptual review and a new definition. 
Technovation, 90, 102098. 
Howaldt, J., & Kopp, R. (2012) Shaping social innovation by social research. In Franz, H.W., Hochgerner, J. & 
J. Howaldt (eds.) Challenge social innovation, Potentials for Business, Social Entrepreneurship, 
Welfare and Civil Society. Berlin, Heidelberg, Springer, pp. 43-55. 
Kaletka, C., Markmann, M., & Pelka, B. (2016) Peeling the Onion. An Exploration of the Layers of Social 
Innovation Ecosystems. Modelling a context sensitive perspective on driving and hindering factors 
for social innovation. European Public & Social Innovation Review, 1 (2), 83-93. 
Mulgan, G., Tucker, S., Ali, R., & Sanders, B. (2007) Social Innovation: what it is, why it matters, how it can be 
accelerated. Skoll Centre for Social Entrepreneurship. Oxford, Said Business School, Working paper 
series. Available from: http://eureka.sbs.ox.ac.uk/761/1/Social_Innovation.pdf 
Nicholls, A., Simon, J., & Gabriel, M. (2015) New frontiers in social innovation research. Basingstoke, Springer 
Nature. 
Pel, B., Haxeltine, A., Avelino, F., Dumitru, A., Kemp, R., Bauler, T., Kunze, I., Dorland, J., Wittmayer, J., & 
Jørgensen, M. S. (2020) Towards a theory of transformative social innovation: A relational 
framework and 12 propositions. Research Policy, 49 (8), 104080. 
Pelka, B., & Terstrip, J. (2016) Mapping the Social Innovation Maps–The State of Research Practice across 
Europe. European Public & Social Innovation Review, 1 (1), 3-16. 
Rao-Nicholson, R., Vorley, T., & Khan, Z. (2017) Social innovation in emerging economies: A national systems 
of innovation-based approach. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 121, 228-237. 
Terstriep, J., Rehfeld, D., & Kleverbeck, M. (2020) Favourable social innovation ecosystem (s)? An explorative 
approach. European planning studies, 28 (5), 881-905. 
Tranfield, D., Denyer, D., & Smart, P. (2003) Towards a methodology for developing evidence‐ informed 
management knowledge by means of systematic review. British journal of management, 14 (3), 207-
222. 
Unceta, A., Castro-Spila, J., & Garcia Fronti, J. (2016) Social innovation indicators. Innovation: The European 
Journal of Social Science Research, 29 (2), 192-204. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
200 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Annex 1  
Table I: Full list of the articles selected for the SLR 
 
 
 
No
Author(s)
Year
No
Author(s)
Year
No
Author(s)
Year
1
Adham, Muhamad, Said, Abdul Sarhadat, Ismail 
and Mohd Nasir
2018
65
Flores and Zapata
2018
129
Parahoo and Al-Nakeeb
2019
2
Agostini, Bitencourt and Vieira
2020
66
Füller, Hutter and Fries
2012
130
Parthasarathy, Dey and Gupta
2021
3
Ahmed, Gazi, Iqbal, Islam and Talukder
2021
67
Gallouj, Rubalcaba, Toivonen and Windrum
2021
131
Parziale and Scotti
2016
4
Aksoy, Alkire, Choi, Kim and Zhang
2019
68
Gasparin, Green, Lilley, Quinn, Saren and 
Schinckus
2021
132
Pel and Kemp
2020
5
Alfalih
2021
69
Giesecke and Schartinger
2021
133
Pel, Wittmayer, Dorland and Søgaard Jørgensen
2020
6
Alijani, Luna, Castro-Spila and Unceta
2016
70
Greene
2021
134
Pellicer-Sifres, Belda-Miquel, López-Fogués and 
Boni Aristizábal
2017
7
Alcaide Lozano, Moliner, Murillo, Buckland
2019
71
Guerrero and Urbano
2020
135
Peter
2021
8
Amanatidou, Tzekou and Gritzas
2021
72
Gupta, Dey and Singh
2016
136
Petersen and Kruss
2021
9
Andion, Alperstedt and Graeff
2020
73
Harrisson, Chaari and Comeau-Vallée
2012
137
Piccarozzi
2018
10
Andion, Alperstedt, Graeff and Ronconi
2021
74
Hart, Ramoroka, Jacobs and Letty
2015
138
Polbitsyn
2021
11
Anggahegari, Yudoko and Rudito
2018
75
Hebinck, Galli, Arcuri, Carroll, O’Connor and 
Oostindie
2019
139
Presenza, Abbate, Cesaroni and Appio
2019
12
Arocena and Sutz
2021
76
Henderson
1993
140
Prost, Vlachokyriakos, Midgley, Heron, Meziant 
and Crivellaro
2019
13
Avelino, Dumitru, Cipolla, Kunze and Wittmayer
2020
77
 Hiteva and Sovacool
2021
141
Purcell, Henriksen and Spengler
2019
14
Avelino, Wittmayer, Pel, Weaver, Dumitru, 
Haxeltine, Kemp, Jørgensen, Bauler, Ruijsink and 
O'Riordan
2019
78
Horgan and Dimitrijevic
2021
142
Rao-Nicholson, Vorley and Khan
2017
15
Baker and Mehmood
2015
79
Hsu, Liu, Tsou and Chen
2019
143
Ravazzoli, Torre, Re, Govigli, Secco, Górriz-
Mifsud, Pisani, Barlagne, Baselice, 
Bengoumi,Dijskhoorn-Dekker, Labidi, Lopolito, 
Melnykovych, Perlik, Polman, Sarkki, 
Vassilopoulos,Koundouri, Miller, Streifeneder and 
Nijnik
2021
16
Ballard, Tran, Hersch, Lockwood, Hartigan and 
Montgomery
2017
80
Ishigaki and Sashida
2021
144
Rehfeld and Terstriep
2016
17
Bartels
2018
81
Jaeger-Erben, Rückert-John and Schäfer
2015
145
Rhodes, McQuaid and Donnelly-Cox
2021
18
Baselice, Lombardi, Prosperi, Stasi and Lopolito
2021
82
Jensen and Brandi
2018
146
Richter and Christmann
2021
19
Basile, Tani, Sciarelli and Ferri
2021
83
Jing and Gong
2012
147
Rizzo, Deserti and Komatsu
2021
20
Batle, Orfila-Sintes and Moon
2018
84
Kadyrova
2021
148
Romanelli and Zbuchea
2021
21
Belcher, Claus, Davel and Jones
2021
85
Kautonen, Pugh and Raunio
2021
149
Rover, De Gennaro and Roselli
2016
22
Bellandi, Donati and Cataneo
2021
86
Kim
2021
150
Ruszkai, Tari and Patkós
2021
23
Ber and Branzei
2010
87
Klievink and Janssen
2014
151
Sabato and Verschraegen
2019
24
Bevilacqua and Ou
2018
88
Kluvánková, Brnkaľáková, Špaček, Slee, Nijnik, 
Valero, Miller, Bryce, Kozová, Polman, Szabo and 
Gežík
2019
152
Sacchi
2019
25
Biggeri, Testi and Bellucci
2016
89
Kohler and Chesbrough
2021
153
Sanzo-Pérez and Álvarez-González
2021
26
Biggs, Westley and Carpenter
2010
90
Komatsu Cipriani, Kaletka and Pelka
2020
154
Sanzo-Perez, Álvarez-González and Rey-García
2015
27
Bittencourt and Ronconi
2016
91
Komatsu, Deserti, Rizzo, Celi and Alijani
2016
155
Satrustegui, Castro-Spila and Luna
2017
28
Bolz and De Bruin
2019
92
Kranzeeva, Golovatsky, Orlova, Nyatina and 
Burmakina
2021
156
Schröer
2021
29
Bosworth, Rizzo, Marquardt, Strijker, Haartsen 
and Aagaard Thuesen
2016
93
Krlev, Einarsson, Wijkström, Heyer and 
Mildenberger
2020
157
Schuster and Kolleck
2020
30
Bozic
2021
94
Kruckenberg
2015
158
Segarra-Oña, Peiró-Signes, Albors-Garrigós and 
Miguel-Molina
2016
31
Bright and Godwin
2010
95
Kumari, Kwon, Lee and Choi
2020
159
Sept
2021
32
Broad and Ortiz
2021
96
Lee, Lee, Kee, Kwan and Ng
2021
160
Sept
2020
33
Cacciolatti, Rosli, Ruiz-Alba and Chang
2019
97
Lind, Kang, Ljung and Forsgren
2018
161
Seyfang and Haxeltine
2012
34
Canestrino, Ćwiklicki, Di Nauta and Magliocca
2019
98
Lindberg and Portinson Hylander
2016
162
Siddike and Kohda
2015
35
Carayannis, Grigoroudis, Stamati and Valvi
2021
99
Liu
2021
163
Slimane and Lamine
2018
36
Carl
2020
100
Lombardi, Lopolito, Andriano, Prosperi, Stasi and 
Iannuzzi
2020
164
Spinelli, Weaver, Marks and Victor
2018
37
Castro-Spila
2018
101
Lubberink, Blok, van Ophem and Omta
2019
165
Super, Klerkx, Hermens and Koelen
2021
38
Castro-Spila, Torres, Lorenzo and Santa
2021
102
Ludvig, Sarkki, Weiss and Živojinović
2021
166
Svidronova, Mikušová Meričková, Nemec and 
Kuvíková
2017
39
Chan, Chui and Chandra
2021
103
Lukesch, Ludvig, Slee, Weiss and Živojinović
2020
167
Tabaklar, Sorkun, Yurt and Yu
2021
40
Charalabidis, Loukis and Androutsopoulou
2014
104
Lythberg, Newth and Woods
2021
168
Temmerman, Veeckman and Ballon
2021
41
Chatfield and Reddick
2016
105
Maher and Hazenberg
2021
169
Terstriep, Rehfeld and Kleverbeck
2020
42
Chatzichristos and Nagopoulos
2020
106
Malek and Costa
2015
170
Tortia, Degavre and Poledrini
2021
43
Chin, Yang, Zhang, Yu and Cao
2019
107
Marakkath and Attuel-Mendes
2015
171
Tracey and Stott
2016
44
Chiodo
2021
108
Marcelloni
2019
172
Ulug and Horlings
2018
45
Cipolla, Afonso, Pel, Bartholo, Silva and Proenca
2021
109
Marchesi and Tweed
2021
173
Unceta, Castro-Spila and Fronti
2021
46
Cipriani, Kaletka and Pelka
2021
110
Martens, Wolff and Hanisch
2020
174
Unceta, Guerra and Barandiaran
2021
47
Cornet and Barpanda
2020
111
Martini, Buffa and Notaro
2017
175
Unceta, Luna, Castro and Wintjes
2020
48
Correia, De Oliveira and Gomez
2015
112
Mazzarella, May and Mitchell
2021
176
Uzsayilir and Baycan
2021
49
Cossetta and Palumbo
2014
113
McKelvey and Zaring
2018
177
Van Niekerk, Mathanga, Juban, Castro-Arroyave 
and Balabanova
2021
50
Coulson and Woods
2021
114
Mdleleni
2021
178
Van Rensburg, Telukdarie and Dhamija
2019
51
Cristofalo, Dariel and Durand
2019
115
Mejia, Hincapie and Giraldo
2019
179
Van Wijk, Zietsma, Dorado, De Bakker and Martí
2019
52
Dahlke, Bogner, Becker, Schlaile, Pyka and 
Ebersberger
2021
116
Mirvis and Googins
2018
180
Vasin, Gamidullaeva and Rostovskaya
2016
53
Dayson
2017
117
Morawska-Jancelewicz
2021
181
Vercher, Barlagne, Hewitt, Nijnik and Esparcia
2020
54
De Bruin
2021
118
Morelli, Aguilar, Concilio, De Gotzen, Mulder, 
Pedersen and Torntoft
2017
182
Vézina, Ben Selma and Malo
2019
55
De Fátima Ferreiro, Sousa, Sheikh and Novikova
2021
119
Morrar, Arman and Mousa
2021
183
Von Jacobi, Nicholls and Chiappero-Martinetti
2017
56
De Filippi, Coscia and Cocina
2017
120
Mulyaningsih, Yudoko and Rudito
2016
184
Warnecke
2016
57
De Rosa
2017
121
Nemec, Orviska and Lawson
2016
185
Wehn, Vallejo, Seijger, Tlhagale, Amorsi, Sossou, 
Genthe and Kileshye Onema
2021
58
Desa and Jia
2021
122
Nicolopoulou, Salama, Attia, Samy, Horgan, 
Khalil and Bakhaty
2021
186
Weinzierl, Wukovitsch and Novy
2016
59
Desa and Koch
2014
123
Novikova
2021
187
Widyaningsih and Van den Broeck
2021
60
Diniz and Leitão
2016
124
Okano
2017
188
Windrum, Schartinger, Rubalcaba, Gallouj and 
Toivonen
2016
61
Edwards and Mercer
2010
125
Onsongo
2019
189
Yang and Sung
2015
62
Errichiello and Micera
2021
126
Oomens and Scholten
2020
190
Ziegler
2017
63
Farmer, Carlisle, Dickson-Swift, Teasdale, Kenny, 
Taylor, Croker, Marini and Gussy
2021
127
Ornetzeder
2001
191
Živojinović, Ludvig and Hogl
2019
64
Fischer, Guerrero, Guimón and Schaeffer
2021
128
Otten, Faughnan, Flattley and Fleurinor
2021
192
Zulazli, Raja Suzana, Zainudin, Abang Feizal and 
Mokhtarrudin
2017

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
201 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Enabling and Constraining 
Contextual Conditions of Sustainable 
Business Models 
 
Steven Kane Curtis1* 
1The International Institute for Industrial Environmental Economics 
(IIIEE), Lund University | Lund, Sweden 
*steven.curtis@iiiee.lu.se 
Extended abstract 
Our conceptual understanding of sustainable business models continually advances, with increasing 
alignment among scholars regarding the definition and design of these business models (Bocken, 
2021; Breuer et al., 2018). However, there remains insufficient knowledge regarding 
operationalization and implementation (Baldassarre et al., 2020; Curtis, 2021; Fobbe and Hilletofth, 
2021), with few successful examples of sustainable business models (Ritala et al., 2018). Yet, 
success is value-laden, reflecting the foremost priorities within an embedded context (Upward and 
Jones, 2015). Perspective also influences success, for example, from the standpoint of the firm, its 
customers, its shareholders, society-at-large, or the natural world. 
We submit this extended abstract to Track 1.2 Ecosystems in Support of Sustainability. This research 
aims to advance knowledge about the operationalization of sustainable business models, by 
exploring the conditions enabling or constraining successful sustainable business models in the 
Nordic context. Specifically, the research explores organizational context by examining stakeholder 
perspectives using the business ecosystem concept. Funded by the Swedish Environmental 
Protection Agency (Naturvårdsverket), the research triangulates academic literature and survey 
data used in a PESTELE analysis to establish an artefact detailing enabling or constraining conditions. 
For transparency, we define sustainable business models, organizational context, business 
ecosystems, enabling and constraining conditions, among other concepts. 
Again, definitions of sustainable business models (SBMs) are merging to offer several guiding 
principles: i) SBMs integrate economic, environmental, and social value to create, deliver, and 
capture what is called sustainable value (Fobbe and Hilletofth, 2021; Méndez‐León et al., 2022); ii) 
SBMs proactively consider stakeholders, including the environment, in the value generation process 
(Fobbe and Hilletofth, 2021; Geissdoerfer et al., 2018); iii) SBMs articulate explicit sustainability 
aspirations, with measurable indicators, which consider a long-term perspective (Bocken, 2021; 
Geissdoerfer et al., 2018). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
202 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Context matters, influencing organizations and individuals (Mowday and Sutton, 1993). We define 
context as the “circumstances, conditions, situations, or environments that are external to the 
respective phenomenon and enable or constrain it” (Welter, 2011, p. 167). Context influences the 
opportunities or limitations of a business over time, based on the proximity and similarity within 
and between organizations and individuals (Mowday and Sutton, 1993). Therefore, to understand 
organization context, we suggest the need to consider the broader business ecosystem.  
A business ecosystem is a group of companies and other interdependent stakeholders (e.g. business 
developers, funders, suppliers, competitors, customers) that interact, reinforcing the roles of each 
company/stakeholder in the ecosystem (Yi et al., 2022; Zahra and Nambisan, 2012).  And, research 
suggests that network effects within an ecosystem improve efficiency, for example, reducing costs 
of product development, production, or distribution (Li and Seering, 2019). Moreover, ecosystems 
facilitate sharing of knowledge, experience, and resources, which supports startups and 
entrepreneurs (Li and Seering, 2019).  
For the purpose of the research, conditions that enable or constrain successful sustainable business 
models are considered to be any contextual knowledge that affect financial viability as well as 
environmental or social impact of sustainable business models, taking into account a systems and 
life-cycle perspective. We chose to define a successful sustainable business model as any 
organisational entity operating for at least three years (or to the natural conclusion of the 
organisation), which is financially viable and able to demonstrate impact consistent with their 
mission. Financial viability describes the ability of the organisational entity to sustain its operations, 
either through adequate revenue streams, grants, donations, or volunteer support. This captures 
both the relativist and normative perspective on success, as outlined by Upward & Jones (2015). 
Therefore, our research is inclusive of commercial enterprises, social enterprises, grassroots 
initiatives, and non-traditional organisational forms (see Curtis and Mont, 2020). 
The methods for data collection include a narrative literature review and a survey among business 
ecosystem stakeholders. A narrative literature review is more suitable for exploratory research 
(Efron and Ravid, 2019), consistent with our research aim to investigate potential enabling or 
constraining conditions influencing the success of sustainable business models. Literature was 
collected on 15 October 2021 from the Scopus database, using a combination of keywords including 
“sustainable business models”, “business ecosystems”, “PESTEL analysis” (and related 
permutations). The search comprised all document types, including articles, conference papers, and 
book chapters. The results returned 231 documents, and their titles, abstracts, and keywords were 
screened. This screening excluded 79 documents, resulting in a final sample of 152 documents. 
Excluded documents most often conflated sustainable and viable to describe the ability for the firm 
to sustain its operations financially. A further 15 documents were unavailable to us.  
The final sample is coded qualitatively using NVivo, a computer-assisted qualitative content analysis 
software. Researchers engage in open coding, reviewing all articles for contextual knowledge that 
is described to either enable or constrain the implementation or operationalisation of SBMs. The 
codes are refined to arrive at an artefact – an initial prototype corresponding to overarching 
categories in a PESTELE analysis: political, economic, social, technological, environmental, legal, and 
ethical conditions (Johnson et al., 2020).  
The survey is planned to be executed in March-April 2022. Survey participants will include 
stakeholders within business ecosystems in the Nordic context, for example, entrepreneurs, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
203 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
managers, business developers, funders, and bureaucrats. The recipients will be known to us, 
recommended to us, or found through publicly available information. We do not intend to conduct 
any statistical analysis from the survey data; rather, the survey data will be used to complement, 
validate, and evaluate the results of the PESTELE analysis. Then, a second prototypical artefact will 
be developed.  
In April 2022, a planned reference group of five academic and industry experts will review the 
artefacts to confirm, refine, and evaluate the PESTELE analysis. The enabling or constraining 
conditions are intended to provide insights to business ecosystem stakeholders in order to better 
support or advance the operationalisation of SBMs. Additionally, the conditions will be modelled 
using causal loop diagrams (CLDs) to identify leverage points relevant for policy intervention or 
other targeted support.  
Keywords  
sustainable business models, organizational context, business ecosystems, PESTELE analysis 
References 
Baldassarre, B., Konietzko, J., Brown, P., Calabretta, G., Bocken, N., Karpen, I.O., Hultink, E.J., 2020. Addressing 
the design-implementation gap of sustainable business models by prototyping: A tool for planning 
and 
executing 
small-scale 
pilots. 
J. 
Clean. 
Prod. 
255, 
120295. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.120295 
Bocken, N., 2021. Sustainable Business Models, in: Leal Filho, W., Azul, A.M., Brandli, L., Lange Salvia, A., Wall, 
T. (Eds.), Decent Work and Economic Growth. Springer International Publishing, Cham, pp. 963–975. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-95867-5_48 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Freund, F.L., Tiemann, I., 2018. Sustainability-oriented business model development: 
principles, 
criteria 
and 
tools. 
Int. 
J. 
Entrep. 
Ventur. 
10, 
256. 
https://doi.org/10.1504/IJEV.2018.092715 
Curtis, S.K., 2021. Business model patterns in the sharing economy. Sustain. Prod. Consum. 27, 1650–1671. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2021.04.009 
Curtis, S.K., Mont, O., 2020. Sharing economy business models for sustainability. J. Clean. Prod. 266, 121519. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.121519 
Efron, S.E., Ravid, R., 2019. Writing a Literature Review: A practical guide. The Guilford Press, United States 
of America. 
Fobbe, L., Hilletofth, P., 2021. The role of stakeholder interaction in sustainable business models. A systematic 
literature review. J. Clean. Prod. 327, 129510. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.129510 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D., Evans, S., 2018. Sustainable business model innovation: A review. J. Clean. 
Prod. 198, 401–416. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.240 
Johnson, G., Whittington, R., Regnér, P., Angwin, D., Scholes, K., 2020. Exploring Strategy. Pearson UK. 
Li, Z., Seering, W., 2019. Does Open Source Hardware Have a Sustainable Business Model? An Analysis of 
Value Creation and Capture Mechanisms in Open Source Hardware Companies. Proc. Des. Soc. Int. 
Conf. Eng. Des. 1, 2239–2248. https://doi.org/10.1017/dsi.2019.230 
Méndez‐León, E., Reyes‐Carrillo, T., Díaz‐Pichardo, R., 2022. Towards a holistic framework for sustainable 
value analysis in business models: A tool for sustainable development. Bus. Strategy Environ. 31, 15–
31. 
Mowday, R.T., Sutton, R.I., 1993. Organizational Behavior: Linking Individuals and Groups to Organizational 
Contexts. Annu. Rev. Psychol. 44, 195–229. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.ps.44.020193.001211 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
204 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Ritala, P., Huotari, P., Bocken, N., Albareda, L., Puumalainen, K., 2018. Sustainable business model adoption 
among S&P 500 firms: A longitudinal content analysis study. J. Clean. Prod. 170, 216–226. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.09.159 
Upward, A., Jones, P., 2015. An Ontology for Strongly Sustainable Business Models: Defining an Enterprise 
Framework 
Compatible 
With 
Natural 
and 
Social 
Science. 
Organ. 
Environ. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1086026615592933 
Welter, F., 2011. Contextualizing Entrepreneurship—Conceptual Challenges and Ways Forward. Entrep. 
Theory Pract. 35, 165–184. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-6520.2010.00427.x 
Yi, Y., Chen, Y., Li, D., 2022. Stakeholder ties, organizational learning, and business model innovation: A 
business 
ecosystem 
perspective. 
Technovation 
114, 
102445. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.technovation.2021.102445 
Zahra, S.A., Nambisan, S., 2012. Entrepreneurship and strategic thinking in business ecosystems. Bus. Horiz., 
SPECIAL 
ISSUE: 
STRATEGIC 
MARKETING 
IN 
A 
CHANGING 
WORLD 
55, 
219–229. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2011.12.004 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
205 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Towards a new business model: A 
systematic literature review on B 
Corporations 
 
Alberto Dello Strologo1, Edoardo D’Andrassi2,*, Francesca 
Ventimiglia3 
1Department of Human Sciences – European University of Rome; 
2Department of Business Studies – Roma Tre University; 3Department 
of business administration and marketing - Niccolò Cusano University  
*edoardo.dandrassi@uniroma3.it  
Extended abstract 
The socio-cultural evolution of the last twenty years has placed companies in front of new 
challenges that require a radical change in the development of their business model. Although the 
company is an open system, historically we have witnessed the development of realities oriented 
only towards the generation of profit that for too long have ignored the impact of their actions.  
In recent years, therefore, an assumption of conscience has been demanded of companies, in line 
with what has been done for governments and citizens (Rufolo, 1988). 
In this perspective, the company as an open system should be considered in the broader sense of 
a company operating according to an ecosystem approach that allows it to create value in synergy 
with stakeholders.  
The need to develop an ecosystemic approach aimed at sustainability becomes even more 
important in the current pandemic period: lockdown, social distancing, and restrictions on 
movement have exacerbated social inequalities.  
In such a scenario, the setting of the right strategy in terms of ecosystem and sustainability can 
represent a valid development tool.  
In the absence of an "operating manual" to follow, it seems useful that companies wishing to 
respond positively to the social, economic, and environmental call, and at the same time see their 
profits increase, can be inspired by the model of Benefit Corporations (B Corps), i.e. those 
companies that have a dual purpose: profit and the creation of well-being for the society in which 
they operate. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
206 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
B Corps have taken it upon themselves to structure business so that the business needs and 
interests of people and the environment are harmonized. They meet the highest standards of social, 
environmental, and economic performance and strive to consider all stakeholders, not just 
shareholders. They represent, therefore, a model to follow for all companies that want to take 
action in support of sustainability. 
From an academic perspective, research on social entrepreneurship has also become more 
prominent over the years (Mair et al., 2016; McMullen & Warnick, 2016; Besharov & Smith, 2014; 
Grimes et al., 2013; Dacin et al., 2010). Many authors have focused on so-called hybrid firms that 
seek to mediate the pursuit of profit with their impact on the environment (Haigh et al., 2015; 
Hoffman et al., 2012; Miller et al., 2012).  
Although there is growing academic interest in organizations that want to combine market and 
social logic, increasing both their mission for the environment and their business performance 
(Battilana & Lee, 2014), B Corps, which are part of a rapidly expanding movement, have been the 
subject of an in-depth study by a minority branch of research.  
These firms have chosen to undergo an external certification process concerning sustainability goals 
by B Lab (Moroz et al, 2018) and it is relevant to understand the possibility of replicating the 
business model adopted by B Corps.  
Although the B Lab social experiment has only recently emerged from the early adopter stage (Cao 
et al., 2017) some scholars believe that it is still capable of making an important contribution in the 
field of entrepreneurship as it is considered a true case of innovation (Wilburn & Wilburn, 2014; 
Kanig, 2013; Sabeti, 2011). Moreover, this topic is believed to be of particular interest as a growing 
number of scholars have become interested in hybrid organizations that, although they have a 
vocation for social work, do not always possess a certification whose importance has been studied 
(Lytton, 2014; Terlaak & King, 2006). Therefore, the current academic debate legitimizes B 
Corporations as an autonomous field of research. 
Santos et al. (2015) argues that business models that align profit and social impact are a key 
challenge for business leaders and, therefore, it appears necessary for firms to adopt strategies that 
can deviate from the traditional capitalist model to meet the sustainable development needs of 
society (Stubbs & Cocklin, 2008).  
Research on B Corps has crossed the boundaries of multiple fields of study and has been carried 
out using knowledge from different areas highlighting the interdisciplinary relevance of the topic.  
The interdisciplinary nature of the subject and the growth of scientific attention on B Corporations 
make it difficult to systematize the current scientific knowledge on the topic and entail the risk that 
the discussion enters a phase of stagnation in which no progress is made. From the above, 
researchers’ intent on employing the current knowledge on B Corp fail to have a holistic view of it 
and risk delving into issues not relevant to knowledge development. Professionals also fail to have 
a clear view of the studies conducted to date and to exploit the insights to make business decisions. 
To the authors' knowledge, no study has synthesized the previous literature. 
In the light of the above, it is important to investigate the structure of B Corps’ business models and 
at the same time systematize the knowledge accumulated to date on the subject. Therefore, the 
present study, by conducting a systematic review of the literature and adopting the methodology 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
207 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
proposed by Tranfield et al. (2003), aims to identify which elements of B Corp have been studied, 
highlighting the relevant findings, to bring clarity to this fragmented field of research and outlining 
future research directions. It is believed that this study can therefore further advance the scientific 
understanding of the topic. 
To achieve these goals, we answered the following research questions (RQs):  
RQ1: How has the literature on B Corporations evolved since its inception? 
RQ2: What themes dominate research in this topic? 
RQ3: What future research is needed in this area? 
To conduct the literature review, articles were identified through a search of the Scopus database 
(de Moya-et al., 2007). To analyze the articles extracted from the database, the authors, to 
maximize the scientific rigorousness of the study, used the research framework developed by 
Paoloni and Demartini (2016) which, consistent with what has been done by previous studies, has 
been partially modified (Paoloni et al., 2019, Paoloni et al., 2020).  
The analysis of the studies revealed that the literature that has dealt with the B Corp movement to 
date has focused on understanding the structural aspects of the business model (Stubbs, 2017a; 
Stubbs, 2017b), understanding the motivations that led firms to seek B certification (Del Baldo, 
2019; Moroza et al, 2018; Grimes et al., 2018; Gehman & Grimes, 2017), the factors that enable 
firms to pass the B test (Hickman & Hickman, 2014), and the possible impact that B certification 
could have in the outreach process to other business organizations (Poponi et al., 2019). 
The analysis also revealed that only a few studies have addressed the issue related to B Corps’ 
performance in terms of both profit and sustainability. Therefore, it is believed that future studies 
should investigate this aspect to understand whether this model can/will be adopted by an 
increasing number of companies. 
It is believed that the present study can have a significant theoretical impact as it makes multiple 
contributions. Using the framework proposed by Paoloni and Demartini (2016), it allows, starting 
from existing knowledge, to highlight the methodological approaches adopted, to identify the most 
relevant research topics and to provide guidelines for scholars to follow in future related research 
activities.  
From a practical management perspective, the study provides a clear view of B Corp studies by 
highlighting the characteristics of B Corp firms and their business models. Although it has not yet 
become clear whether B certification will be required by a critical mass of firms (Hiller, 2013) it is 
believed that the separation between nonprofit firms, which focus their attention on the pursuit of 
social benefit, and for-profit firms, which have profit maximization as their goal, is evolving to 
become more blurred day by day. 
Keywords  
B Corp, Hybrid business model, Sustainable business model, Corporate sustainability, Sustainable 
entrepreneurship  
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
208 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
References  
Battilana J., Lee M. (2014) Advancing research on hybrid organizing. The Academy of Management annals. 8, 
397–441. 
Besharov M. L., Smith W.K. (2014) Multiple institutional logics in organizations: Explaining their varied nature 
and implications. Academy of Management Review. 39(3), 364–381. 
Cao, K., Gehman, J. and Grimes, M.G. (2017) Standing Out and Fitting In: Charting the Emergence of Certified 
B Corporations By Industry and Region. In Corbett, A.C. & Katz, J.A. (eds.) Hybrid Ventures (Advances 
in Entrepreneurship, Firm Emergence and Growth, Vol. 19, Emerald Publishing Limited, Bingley, pp. 
1-38 
Dacin P., Dacin T., Matear M. (2010) Social entrepreneurship: Why we don’t need a new theory and how we 
move forward from here. Academy of Management Perspectives. 24(3), 37–57. 
Del Baldo M. (2019) Acting as a benefit corporation and a B Corp to responsibly pursue private and public 
benefits. The case of Paradisi Srl (Italy). International Journal of Corporate Social Responsibility. 4. 
Grimes M. G., Gehmanb J., Cao K. (2018) Positively deviant: Identity work through B Corporation Certification. 
Journal of Business Venturing. 33, 130–148.  
Grimes M., McMullen J., Vogus T., Miller, T. (2013) Studying the origins of social entrepreneurship: 
Compassion and the role of embedded agency. Academy of Management Review. 38(3), 460–463. 
Haigh N., Walker J., Bacq S., Kickul J. (2015) Hybrid organizations: origins, strategies, impacts, and 
implications. California Management Review. 57 (3), 5–12. 
Hickman L., Hickman J. B. K. (2014) Explaining the Location of Mission- Driven Businesses. The Journal of 
Corporate Citizenship. 55, 13-25. 
Hiller J.S. (2013) The benefit corporation and corporate social responsibility. Journal of Business Ethics. 118 
(2), 287–301. 
Hoffman A., Badiane K., Haigh N. (2012) Hybrid organizations as agents of positive social change: bridging the 
for-profit and non-profit divide. In: Golden-Briddle K., Dutton J. E. (eds) Using a Positive Lens to 
Explore Social Change and Organizations. Taylor and Francis: Hoboken, NJ, pp. 131–153. 
Kanig I. (2013), Sustainable Capitalism Through the Benefit Corporation: Enforcing the Procedural Duty of 
Consideration to Protect Non-Shareholder Interests, Hastings Law Journal. 863-903. 
Lytton T.D. (2014) Competitive third-party regulation: how private certification can overcome constraints that 
frustrate government regulation. Theoretical Inquiries in Law. 15(2), 539–572. 
McMullen J. S., Warnick B. J. (2016) Should we require every new venture to be a hybrid organization? Journal 
of Management Studies. 53(4), 630–662. 
Miller T., Grimes G., McMullen J., Vogus T. (2012), Venturing for others with heart and head: How compassion 
encourages social entrepreneurship. Academy of Management Review. 37(4), 616–640. 
Moroza P. W., Branzeib O., Parkerb S. C., Gamblec E. N. (2018) Imprinting with purpose: Prosocial 
opportunities and B Corp certification. Journal of Business Venturing. 33, 117–129. 
Pache A.C., Santos F. (2013) Inside the hybrid organization: selective coupling as a response to conflicting 
institutional logics. Academy of Management Journal. 56(4), 972-1001. 
Poponi S., Colantoni A., Cividino S. R. S., Mosconi E. M. (2019), The Stakeholders’ Perspective within the B 
Corp Certification for a Circular Approach. Sustainability, 11, 1584. 
Sabeti H. (2011) The for-benefit enterprise. Harvard Business Review. 89, 99-104. 
Santos F.M., Pache A. C., Birkholz C. (2015) Making hybrids work: aligning business models and organizational 
design for social enterprises. California Management Review. 57 (3), 36-58. 
Stubbs W. (2017a), Characterising B Corps as a sustainable business model: An exploratory study of B Corps 
in Australia. Journal of Cleaner Production. 144, 299-312. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
209 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Stubbs W. (2017b), Sustainable Entrepreneurship and B Corps, Business Strategy and the Environment. 
Business Strategy and the Environment. 26, 331–344. 
Stubbs W., Cocklin C. (2008) Conceptualizing a ‘sustainability business model’. Organization & Environment. 
21 (2), 103-127. 
Terlaak A., King A.A. (2006) The effect of certification with the ISO 9000 quality management standard: a 
signaling approach. The Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization. 60 (4), 579–602. 
Wilburn K., Wilburn R. (2014) The double bottom line: profit and social benefit. Business Horizons. 57, 11-20.  
Moroz, P.W., Branzei, O., Parker, S.C., Gamble, E.N. 2018 Imprinting with purpose: Prosocial opportunities 
and B Corp certification. Journal of Business Venturing. 33, 117-129. 
Paoloni, N., Mattei, G., Dello Strologo, A. and Celli, M. (2020) The present and future of intellectual capital in 
the healthcare sector: A systematic literature review. Journal of Intellectual Capital. 21 (3), 357-379. 
Paoloni, P. and Demartini, P. (2016) Women in management: perspectives on a decade of research (2005–
2015). Palgrave Communications, Nature Publishing Group. 2, 16094. 
Paoloni, P., Paoloni, N. and Modaffari, G. (2019) Crowdfunding as a new collaborative process in the 
knowledge economy: A literature review. VINE Journal of Information and Knowledge Management 
Systems. 49 (2), 241-255. 
Tranfield, D., Denyer, D. and Smart, P., (2003) Towards a methodology for developing evidence informed 
management knowledge by means of systematic review. British Journal of Management. 14 (3), 207-
222. 
Rufolo, G. (1988) Il Futuro di Tutti noi. Milan, Bompiani. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
210 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Engaging University Stakeholders in 
Building Ecosystems For Social 
Entrepreneurs: Insights From a 
Capacity Building Project In the 
Global South 
 
Abel Diaz Gonzalez1*, Nikolay Dentchev1, Edgar Izquierdo2, Jose 
Loaiza3, James Bulenzibuto4, Andrea Samaniego2, Virginio Avila3  
1Vrije Universiteit Brussel (Belgium); 2ESPOL (Ecuador); 3 Universidad 
Católica de Boliviana (Bolivia); 4 Kyambogo University (Uganda) 
*adiazgon@vub.be   
Extended abstract 
In the past decade, a growing amount of scientific literature has been focusing on the ecosystem 
phenomenon, attempting to explain the underpinning conditions, mechanisms, processes, 
outcomes and outputs that lead to entrepreneurial growth within a region (Cao & Shi, 2021; 
Theodoraki, Dana, & Caputo, 2021). Within ecosystems, universities are portrayed as a central 
actor, due to their organic connections and interactions with the industry, government and wider 
society thanks to their core missions, technology transfer processes and community engagement 
(Guerrero, Urbano, & Gajón, 2020; Roncancio-Marin, Dentchev, Guerrero, Diaz Gonzalez, & 
Crispeels, 2022).  
Many universities in developing economies are at the forefront of combating complex local social 
problems (Roncancio-Marin et al., 2022). The sustainability issues in the global south are more 
complex due to the scarcity of resources, poor infrastructure, lack of legitimacy, government failure 
and corruption, among other factors (Arocena & Sutz, 2021). Social Entrepreneurs play an 
important role in these countries, by providing innovative solutions to their social and 
environmental complex challenges (Diaz Gonzalez & Dentchev, 2021). To succeed, SEs need to be 
embedded in ecosystems, where they can benefit from the interaction with a variety of actors with 
complementary knowledge and assets, including universities (Autio et al., 2014; Roundy, 2017).  
Despite the obvious role of universities in the supportive ecosystem for SEs, this topic remains fairly 
under-researched (Thomsen, Muurlink, & Best, 2018). Such gap in the knowledge has been 
highlighted by Guerrero et al (2016, p. 560) who stress the need to further explore “the 
environmental factors (i.e., formal: policies, incentives & informal: attitudes, culture) and internal 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
211 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
factors (i.e., resources and capabilities), that affect the development of Entrepreneurial Universities 
in the new social and economic landscape”.  
The objective of this paper is to investigate how universities engage and mobilize different 
stakeholders (internal and external) to build a supportive ecosystem for social entrepreneurs in the 
global south. We gather insights from a capacity-building project between Belgium, Ecuador, Bolivia 
and Uganda, with the main objective to develop university offices and policies to strengthen and 
promote social entrepreneurship at universities and thus dynamize the local ecosystems in support 
of social entrepreneurs. To do so, we will adopt a qualitative approach (Eisenberg & Miller, 1987), 
with interviews with elite informants (Solarino & Aguinis, 2020) from officials, professors, students 
and entrepreneurs from four universities involved in SEfficiency3, a two year capacity building 
project, combined with different observations and reports from the project activities.  
To make build our arguments in this paper, we will borrow insights from institutional theory (Scott, 
2005) and ecosystem thinking (Jacobides, Cennamo, & Gawer, 2018; Spigel & Harrison, 2018; 
Theodoraki et al., 2021). The institutional theory has been widely used to examine the influence of 
the institutional environment (norms, rules, culture, routines) and the actions of individuals and 
organizations, in the process of gaining legitimacy and support. In the context of universities and 
entrepreneurship, this theory has provided different insights on how universities interact with 
multiple stakeholders, due to multiple environmental factors that shape the university 
entrepreneurial activity (Guerrero & Urbano, 2016). Such external factors influence not only the 
teaching and research activities, but also the entrepreneurial dimension of the university, including 
technology transfer process, entrepreneurial education portfolio, governance structure, and the 
entrepreneurial attitudes of the university community (Schmitz, Urbano, Dandolini, de Souza, & 
Guerrero, 2016; Urbano, Guerrero, Ferreira, & Fernandes, 2018). 
The relevant literature describes various types of support that an ecosystem can offer to SEs, 
including access to different types of capital (human, financial and commercial), and other specific 
resources, knowledge, information and networking expansion possibilities (Biggeri, Testi & Bellucci, 
2017; Goyal, Sergi & Jaiswal, 2016; Letaifa, 2016). In addition, we see evidence in the relevant 
literature on how universities engage in the resolution of complex social and environmental issues 
by using the support and involvement of their students, faculty, and staff. This occurs mainly 
through curricular and extracurricular activities, where students, university faculty, and staff work 
with local community groups to resolve real social challenges (Jones, Warner & Kiser, 2010).  
In the global south, many universities lack modern infrastructure and technologies, the knowledge 
or programs specifically designed to support social entrepreneurs (Diaz Gonzalez, Dentchev, & 
Roman Roig, 2020). Nevertheless, universities contribute to local ecosystem dynamics by means of 
community service learning (Furco, 2016), where students are confronted with the needs of 
communities, which allows them to reflect upon and resolve the rather challenging social issues 
that they face. Other examples of activities undertaken by universities to support the 
entrepreneurial environment are related to education in entrepreneurship, social entrepreneurship 
and sustainability, business simulation competitions, internships, volunteer programs, 
collaboration with incubators and accelerators and attracting or promoting grants and seed funding 
for students entrepreneurs (Marzocchi, Kitagawa, & Sánchez-Barrioluengo, 2017).  
 
3 https://www.vliruos.be/en/projects/project/22?pid=4432 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
212 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Therefore, we can argue that the different university involvement with the community constitutes 
a favourable environment to support SE, not only because of the different amount of interactions 
and specialized knowledge, but also because of the multiple collaborations with corporates, 
multinationals, public intuitions, governments and international organizations, that aim at 
developing new knowledge and advancing technologies that will be serving societal needs (Wakkee, 
van der Sijde, Vaupell, & Ghuman, 2019). However, the specific aspect of engaging different 
stakeholders (internal and external) to build a supportive and conducive environment for social 
entrepreneurship remains underexplored (Klofsten et al., 2019).  
Our main contribution will be related to characterising the different processes of engagement of 
university stakeholders in the process of developing ecosystems for SEs. Many contributions have 
mainly explored the ecosystem as a network, with much attention given to map its different actors, 
their affiliation, specific roles and interactions (Mars & Bronstein, 2017; Roundy, 2017). This is 
partial because one important of the most relevant aspect of an ecosystem is the actor's 
interdependence (Stam, 2015). This means that they create dynamic communities, uniting social, 
cultural and economic forces (Spigel, 2017) to improve the competitiveness of all entrepreneurs 
embedded in the ecosystem. But as in any other system, the engagement processes are key to 
maintaining a healthy level of interactions among its members (Colombo, Dagnino, Lehmann, & 
Salmador, 2017).  
Keywords  
Universities; Ecosystems; Social Entrepreneurship; Capacity Building; Global South 
References  
Arocena, R., & Sutz, J. (2021). Universities and social innovation for global sustainable development as seen 
from the south. Technol Forecast Soc Change, 162, 120399. doi:10.1016/j.techfore.2020.120399 
Cao, Z., & Shi, X. (2021). A systematic literature review of entrepreneurial ecosystems in advanced and 
emerging economies. Small Business Economics, 57(1), 75-110.  
Colombo, M. G., Dagnino, G. B., Lehmann, E. E., & Salmador, M. (2017). The governance of entrepreneurial 
ecosystems. Small Business Economics, 52(2), 419-428. doi:10.1007/s11187-017-9952-9 
Diaz Gonzalez, A., & Dentchev, N. A. (2021). Ecosystems in support of social entrepreneurs: a literature 
review. Social Enterprise Journal, ahead-of-print(ahead-of-print). doi:10.1108/sej-08-2020-0064 
Diaz Gonzalez, A., Dentchev, N. A., & Roman Roig, M. d. C. (2020). Beyond intellectual property and rich 
infrastructure: A community service learning perspective on universities supportive role towards 
social entrepreneurs. In Entrepreneurial Ecosystems Meet Innovation Systems: Edward Elgar 
Publishing. 
Eisenberg, N., & Miller, P. A. (1987). The Relation of Empathy to Prosocial and Related Behaviors Stress, 
Coping, and Adaptation View project Prosocial Motivation View project. Psychological Bulletin, 101, 
91-119. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.101.1.91 
Guerrero, M., & Urbano, D. (2016). The Transformative Role of Universities: Determinants, Impacts, and 
Challenges. In Entrepreneurial and Innovative Practices in Public Institutions (pp. 1-17). 
Guerrero, M., Urbano, D., & Gajón, E. (2020). Entrepreneurial university ecosystems and graduates' career 
patterns: do entrepreneurship education programmes and university business incubators matter? 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
213 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Journal of Management Development, ahead-of-print(ahead-of-print). doi:10.1108/jmd-10-2019-
0439 
Jacobides, M. G., Cennamo, C., & Gawer, A. (2018). Towards a theory of ecosystems. Strategic Management 
Journal, 39, 2255-2276. doi:10.1002/smj.2904 
Klofsten, M., Fayolle, A., Guerrero, M., Mian, S., Urbano, D., & Wright, M. (2019). The entrepreneurial 
university as driver for economic growth and social change - Key strategic challenges. Technological 
Forecasting and Social Change, 141, 149-158. doi:10.1016/j.techfore.2018.12.004ars, M. M., & 
Bronstein, J. L. (2017). The Promise of the Organizational Ecosystem Metaphor : An Argument for 
Biological Rigor. doi:10.1177/1056492617706546 
Marzocchi, C., Kitagawa, F., & Sánchez-Barrioluengo, M. (2017). Evolving missions and university 
entrepreneurship: academic spin-offs and graduate start-ups in the entrepreneurial society. The 
Journal of Technology Transfer, 44(1), 167-188. doi:10.1007/s10961-017-9619-3 
Roncancio-Marin, J., Dentchev, N., Guerrero, M., Diaz Gonzalez, A., & Crispeels, T. (2022). University-Industry 
joint undertakings with high societal impact: A micro-processes approach. Technological Forecasting 
and Social Change, 174. doi:10.1016/j.techfore.2021.121223 
Roundy, P. T. (2017). Social entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial ecosystems: Complementary or disjoint 
phenomena? 
International 
Journal 
of 
Social 
Economics, 
44, 
1252-1267. 
doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/MRR-09-2015-0216 
Schmitz, A., Urbano, D., Dandolini, G. A., de Souza, J. A., & Guerrero, M. (2016). Innovation and 
entrepreneurship in the academic setting: a systematic literature review. International 
Entrepreneurship and Management Journal, 13(2), 369-395. doi:10.1007/s11365-016-0401-z 
Scott, W. R. (2005). Institutional theory: Contributing to a theoretical research program. Great minds in 
management: The process of theory development, 37(2), 460-484.  
Solarino, A. M., & Aguinis, H. (2020). Challenges and Best‐practice Recommendations for Designing and 
Conducting Interviews with Elite Informants. Journal of Management Studies, 58(3), 649-672. 
doi:10.1111/joms.12620 
Spigel, B. (2017). The Relational Organization of Entrepreneurial Ecosystems. Entrepreneurship: Theory and 
Practice, 41, 49-72. doi:10.1111/etap.12167 
Spigel, B., & Harrison, R. (2018). Toward a process theory of entrepreneurial ecosystems. Strategic 
Entrepreneurship Journal, 12(1), 151-168. doi:10.1002/sej.1268 
Stam, E. (2015). Entrepreneurial Ecosystem. Entrepreneurial Ecosystem. doi:10.1007/978-81-322-2086-2 
Theodoraki, C., Dana, L.-P., & Caputo, A. (2021). Building sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems: A holistic 
approach. Journal of Business Research. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2021.11.005 
Urbano, D., Guerrero, M., Ferreira, J. J., & Fernandes, C. I. (2018). New technology entrepreneurship 
initiatives: Which strategic orientations and environmental conditions matter in the new socio-
economic landscape? The Journal of Technology Transfer, 44(5), 1577-1602. doi:10.1007/s10961-
018-9675-3 
Wakkee, I., van der Sijde, P., Vaupell, C., & Ghuman, K. (2019). The university's role in sustainable 
development: Activating entrepreneurial scholars as agents of change. Technological Forecasting 
and Social Change. doi:10.1016/j.techfore.2018.10.013 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
214 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Exploring (mis)alignment of value-
risk synergies and tensions between 
stakeholders in circular business 
models 
 
Julia Gross1,*, Fenna Blomsma1 
1 University of Hamburg, Faculty of Business, Economics and Social 
Sciences, Hamburg, Germany 
* julia.anne.gross@uni-hamburg.de 
Extended abstract 
Circular business models (CBMs) offer many opportunities to create economic, environmental and 
social value. Various circular strategies or combinations of circular strategies such as reuse, repair, 
remanufacture, recycling or regeneration can optimize resource efficiency and productivity while 
simultaneously reducing or eliminating primary resource extraction and harmful wastes (e.g. EMF, 
2020; Geissdoerfer et al., 2017). The transition towards a circular economy (CE) requires changes 
at a complex systemic level, involving the redesign and reorganization of entire value chain 
structures and a need for significant changes to the ways in which multiple key stakeholders 
collaborate, coordinate and align with each other. Adopting this perspective means acknowledging 
that interaction between different stakeholders is a key factor in determining the success or failure 
of CE solutions. In particular, the synergistic alignment of circular value creation and capture 
between businesses, investors and societal stakeholders is an important underlying mechanism for 
the successful scaling of CBMs and an acceleration of the transition towards a CE. 
Scholars have also highlighted some of the potential risks and uncertainties relating to the CE. 
Depending on the way that they are configured and implemented, CBMs do not automatically lead 
to an improvement in environmental or social sustainability or a reduction in primary resource 
consumption (e.g. Hart & Pomponi, 2021; Korhonen et al., 2018; Manninen et al., 2018; Murray et 
al., 2017; Tukker & Tischner, 2006). For example, Zink and Geyer (2017) conceptualized the 
possibility of “circular rebound” whereby CE activities can potentially increase overall economic 
production. Other researchers have drawn attention to the inherent uncertainties surrounding 
financial and investment decisions pertaining to CBMs, which create barriers to their 
implementation (e.g. Dewick, 2020; Linder & Williander, 2017). For example, in product-service-
system (PSS) business models, value is created for the business stakeholder through the retention 
of product ownership, which secures the rights and control over product return flows. This creates 
synergy with customers who value the convenience of repair and maintenance provisions that non-
ownership affords them and paying only for what they use (Cherry & Pidgeon, 2018). Further 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
215 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
synergies can be created when PSS models reduce product life cycle environmental impact by 
enabling changes in consumer behavior (Bocken et al., 2018). However, financial services 
institutions may be reluctant to finance such CBMs due to higher capital investment and longer 
payback periods resulting from retained ownership of products and delayed revenue streams, 
resulting in a higher credit risk for financial stakeholders (FinanCE Working Group, 2016; ING, 2020). 
Attempts to ensure value capture for business and financial stakeholders, such as more restrictive 
contractual clauses regarding payment terms or product use, can result in higher risk for consumers 
and society, especially in the case of goods or services that serve fundamental personal or societal 
needs (Cherry & Pidgeon, 2018; ING, 2020). 
The above examples illustrate the existence of interrelated synergies and tensions between circular 
value and circular risk. On the one hand, circular value creation and/or capture by one stakeholder 
can simultaneously create value for others. On the other hand, circular value creation and/or 
capture by one stakeholder or set of stakeholders could potentially generate costs or risks for 
another stakeholder or set of stakeholders. In addition, an individual organization may encounter 
value-risk synergies and tensions between different elements of its CBM configuration. In short, 
value-risk synergies and tensions could occur in the CE on different levels: among a set of societal 
stakeholders, within a circular value chain or within a single organization. The relative salience and 
importance of value-risk constructions within and between different stakeholders has significant 
implications for the successful and sustainable implementation of circular initiatives (e.g. Machacek 
et al., 2017). That is: synergistic effects will align interests and function as an enabler, whilst 
conflicts and misalignment will inhibit progress. Therefore, it is important to investigate and 
understand the degree to which stakeholders are aligned or differ with regards to capturing circular 
value and their exposure to circular risk. 
Several systematic literature reviews have categorized and conceptualized many examples of value 
creation, benefits, opportunities and drivers as well as risks, challenges, and barriers that emerge 
in the implementation and operation of CBMs and CE initiatives (e.g. Ghisellini et al., 2016; 
Govindan & Hasanagic, 2018; Hina et al., 2022). However, there is currently very little 
understanding of how value and risk factors are co-dependent and interrelated with each other on 
different levels and how they are aligned or misaligned between key stakeholder groups. A 
conceptual understanding of the most pertinent value-risk synergies and tensions from different 
stakeholder perspectives could lead to important insights surrounding the underlying mechanisms 
of enablers and barriers to CE implementation. Insight into this could help to develop more effective 
solutions for constructive collaboration among the stakeholder groups in order to support the 
growth of CBMs, and to understand how stakeholder interests could be better aligned while doing 
so. Therefore, the research paper aims to answer the following research questions: 
What circular value and circular risk emerges from the perspective of three different stakeholder 
groups – business, finance and society? 
How is circular value and circular risk aligned or misaligned between the three stakeholders? 
How can value-risk synergies and tensions between stakeholders be identified and conceptualized 
in a systematic manner? 
The proposed development of a systematic conceptualization of circular value-risk synergies and 
tensions requires an investigation and assessment of the current state of knowledge that is 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
216 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
grounded in the academic literature, thus allowing for the synthesis and extension of this research 
domain and the identification of gaps for further investigation. Therefore, a systematic literature 
review is currently being conducted in order to identify and conceptualize the most significant sets 
or configurations of circular value-risk synergies and tensions between three specific stakeholders, 
namely business, finance and society. 
A systematic search for literature has been conducted in the Web of Science database and relevant 
articles have been filtered according to title, keywords, and abstract. The final data set for full-text 
analysis consists of approximately 100 peer-reviewed academic articles that partially or fully 
address perceptions or conceptualizations of circular risk or circular value creation and capture 
from the perspective of business organizations, financial institutions and investors, or societal 
stakeholders such as consumers or local communities. In line with qualitative content analysis, 
articles are being coded in Maxqda to identify patterns of co-occurring and interdependent value-
risk synergies or tensions between the three stakeholders.  In addition, we aim to identify how 
value-risk patterns or configurations relate to different CE contexts, such as the position in the value 
chain, stage of the product life cycle, industry and type of CE strategy or combination of CE 
strategies being utilized. 
Through a synthesis of the literature, the intended outcome of the review is to create a typology or 
conceptual framework of circular value-risk synergies and tensions that highlights alignment and/or 
misalignment between the three stakeholder groups, and in which “circular contexts” they occur, 
thereby extending the literature and identifying areas for further research. 
In conclusion, different perspectives of circular value and circular risk could hinder constructive 
collaboration between three important stakeholder groups that are considered vital to the 
transition to a CE: business, finance and society. Through the development of a conceptual 
framework of value-risk synergies and tensions between these three stakeholders, we offer a more 
holistic stakeholder ecosystem approach and deeper insights into CE enablers and barriers. We 
intend to provide academics and practitioners with a way of actively and systematically navigating 
value-risk synergies and tensions in different CE contexts, so that synergies can be strengthened 
and leveraged, while potential difficulties can be preemptively recognized, managed and 
reconciled. 
Keywords 
circular economy, value, risk, synergies, tensions 
References 
Bocken, N. M., Mugge, R., Bom, C. A., & Lemstra, H.-J. (2018). Pay-per-use business models as a driver for 
sustainable consumption: Evidence from the case of HOMIE. Journal of Cleaner Production. 198, 
498–510. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.07.043 
Cherry, C., & Pidgeon, N. (2018). Why Is Ownership an Issue? Exploring Factors That Determine Public 
Acceptance 
of 
Product-Service 
Systems. 
Sustainability. 
10(7), 
2289. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su10072289 
Dewick, P., Bengtsson, M., Cohen, M. J., Sarkis, J., & Schröder, P. (2020). Circular economy finance: Clear 
winner or risky proposition? Journal of Industrial Ecology. 24(6), 1192–1200. 
EMF. (2020). Financing the circular economy: Capturing the opportunity. Ellen MacArthur Foundation. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
217 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Working Group FinanCE. (2016). Money Makes the World Go Round: And Will It Help to Make the Economy 
Circular Aswell? 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M., & Hultink, E. J. (2017). The circular economy a new sustainability 
paradigm? 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
143, 
757–768. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.12.048 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., & Ulgiati, S. (2016). A review on circular economy: the expected transition to a 
balanced interplay of environmental and economic systems. Journal of Cleaner Production, 114, 11–
32. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.09.007 
Govindan, K., & Hasanagic, M. (2018). A systematic review on drivers, barriers, and practices towards circular 
economy: a supply chain perspective. International Journal of Production Research. 56(1-2), 278–
311. https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2017.1402141 
Hart, J., & Pomponi, F. (2021). A circular economy: Where will it take us? Circular Economy and Sustainability. 
1, 127–141. https://doi.org/10.1007/s43615-021-00013-4 
Hina, M., Chauhan, C., Kaur, P., Kraus, S., & Dhir, A. (2022). Drivers and barriers of circular economy business 
models: Where we are now, and where we are heading. Journal of Cleaner Production. 333, 130049. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.130049 
ING. (2020). Rethinking the road to the circular economy. ING Economics Department. 
Korhonen, J., Honkasalo, A., & Seppälä, J. (2018a). Circular economy: The concept and its limitations. 
Ecological Economics. 143, 37–46. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolecon.2017.06.041  
Linder, M., & Williander, M. (2017). Circular Business Model Innovation: Inherent Uncertainties. Business 
Strategy and the Environment. 26(2), 182–196. https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.1906 
Machacek, E., Richter, J., & Lane, R. (2017). Governance and Risk–Value Constructions in Closing Loops of 
Rare 
Earth 
Elements 
in 
Global 
Value 
Chains. 
Resources. 
6(4), 
59. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/resources6040059 
Manninen, K., Koskela, S., Antikainen, R., Bocken, N., Dahlbo, H., & Aminoff, A. (2018). Do circular economy 
business models capture intended environmental value propositions? Journal of Cleaner Production. 
171, 413–422. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.10.003  
Murray, A., Skene, K., & Haynes, K. (2017). The circular economy: An interdisciplinary exploration of the 
concept and application in a global context. Journal of Business Ethics. 140, 369–380. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-015-2693-2  
Tukker, A., & Tischner, U. (2006). New business for old Europe. Product services, sustainability and 
competitiveness. Sheffield, UK, Greenleaf Publishing Ltd. 
Zink, T., & Geyer, R. (2017). Circular Economy Rebound. Journal of Industrial Ecology. 21(3), 593–602. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/jiec.12545 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
218 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Multi-actor business models in the 
manufacturing industry. Exploring 
how first-tier suppliers transition 
towards circularity. 
 
Martina Forbicini1, Lisa Heldt1,* 
1IIIEE, Lund University 
*lisa.heldt@iiiee.lu.se 
Extended abstract 
Abstract 
Adopting circular business models (CBM) represents a key lever for industry to address urgent 
global challenges. Prior research recognizes the need for systems thinking and collaboration, but 
existing CBM tools and methods often implicitly assume that the focal firm has direct access to end 
customers, usage data and end-of-life phases. However, upstream suppliers who lack this access 
often produce key components of the final product – particularly in manufacturing – and could thus 
be an impactful actor in driving circular solutions. We therefore aim to explore and explain how 
non-end-user-facing manufacturers, i.e. first-tier suppliers, drive CBM adoption through their value 
chain and stakeholder partners, and how existing CBM archetypes need to be extended for these 
novel constellations. For this purpose, we conduct an action research case study with a Swedish 
first-tier manufacturer who is starting to develop CBMs for its marine engine product lines which 
are currently sold in a linear fashion through boat manufacturers and dealers to end users. Expected 
results include an extended CBM canvas that accounts for CBM archetypes based on more complex 
value chain and stakeholder collaborations. By exploring how companies further upstream in the 
value chain initiate and build CBMs, we aim to advance and bridge knowledge on multi-actor CBMs 
and circular supply chains. We thereby hope to invite more research into how non-traditional actors 
can drive circular industry transitions.  
Introduction 
Adopting circular business models (CBMs), i.e. sustainable business models that focus on “closing, 
narrowing, slowing, intensifying, and dematerializing [resource] loop” (Geissdoerfer et al., 
2018:p.713), is a central lever for industry to help address societal challenges, such as resource 
scarcity and climate change. This transition away from current linear production and consumption 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
219 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
systems to circular business models can take different shapes (Geissdoerfer et al., 2020), however, 
entails inherent challenges (Linder & Williander, 2017) and often requires collaboration with 
multiple actors (Bertassini et al., 2021). In this transformation process, the roles of value chain 
partners and stakeholders change (Kanda, Geissdoerfer & Hjelm, 2021; Frishammar & Parida, 
2019), with researchers calling for a wider perspective on the surrounding ecosystem (Parida et al., 
2019; Fehrer & Wieland, 2020; Lieder & Rashid, 2016). While such research is growing (Bertassini 
et al., 2021; Reim, Sjödin & Parida, 2021), it remains underexplored what happens if other actors in 
the ecosystem – not the end-user-facing company – initiate and drive CBM design and 
implementation.  
Many existing CBM archetypes, tools and design principles implicitly assume that the focal firm is 
end-user-facing (i.e. private users in B2C and industrial users in B2B) (Pieroni, McAloone & Pigosso, 
2021; Bocken et al., 2014), even in studies focusing on the ecosystem level (Konietzko, Bocken & 
Hultink, 2020). For instance, CBM canvas tools subsume possible multi-actor constellations under 
the ‘key partners’ (Nußholz, 2018; Antikainen & Valkokari, 2016) or ‘key partnerships’ 
(Lewandowski, 2016) element, thus oversimplifying the relations and their implications. While this 
focus is justifiable and relevant for most CBM adopters, circularity’s inherent need for multi-actor 
solutions creates a rich potential for and growing interest from non-traditional, non-end-user-
facing organizations, such as for instance first-tier suppliers in the manufacturing industry. It 
remains unclear how such companies initiate and develop CBMs while facing a lack of access to end 
customers, usage data or end-of-life stage. Since they often produce key components (i.e. key both, 
concerning the final product’s functionality and economic value as well as concerning 
environmental impacts in production and use phase), such first-tier suppliers assume a critical role 
for circularity, yet need to leverage their value chain partners and possibly additional collaborations 
to implement CBMs and boost innovation.  
The research aim is to explore and understand how non-end-user-facing manufacturers, i.e. first-
tier suppliers, can drive CBM implementation through their value chain, and thereby contribute to 
a circular industry transformation. For this purpose, we first explore the particularities faced by 
first-tier suppliers when initiating CBMs in terms of value chain relations, access to customers and 
data etc.; second, we compare and contrast this with the CBM literature which implicitly focuses 
on CBM implementation by customer-facing organizations; and third, we synthesize suitable CBM 
configurations and necessary organizational changes that first-tier suppliers face for transitioning 
to CBMs. In doing so, we seek to address the following two research questions: (1) How do CBM 
archetypes need to be adapted and extended to fit for First-Tier Suppliers in the manufacturing 
sector (marine industry)? (2) How do organizational structures, value chain relations and 
collaboration change when first-tier suppliers transition to such multi-actor CBMs?  
Method 
The research follows a case study approach (Siggelkow, 2007; Verschuren, 2003) which is 
particularly relevant for gaining deep and contextual insights into an emerging phenomenon 
(Flyvbjerg, 2006). The case company is a Sweden-based multinational manufacturer of engines and 
drivelines for marine and industrial applications that is exploring opportunities connected to CBMs. 
This particular case focuses on the development of CBMs for their marine leisure segment where 
engines and drivelines produced by the case company are currently sold in a linear way via boat 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
220 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
manufacturers and dealers to end user. The adoption of CBMs by first-tier suppliers – who have no 
direct access to customers, usage data and product at end-of-life and, thus, rely on new and 
different value chain partners and multi-actor business models to circumvent these limitations – is 
a recently emerging phenomenon. Case selection in exploratory studies serves to identify cases that 
are novel, extreme or otherwise particular (Verschuren, 2003) and therefore promise rich insights 
(Flyvbjerg, 2006) into emerging phenomena (Siggelkow, 2007). The case at hand was chosen for its 
unique, real-world setting that provides valuable insights into the new development.  
For data collection, the study builds on semi-structured expert interviews with practitioners in the 
case company as well as complementary interviews with value chain partners and peers in the 
industry. Interviews are triangulated with (a) document review to cross-check background 
information, dates and facts as well as (b) observations during field visits to the company plant and 
headquarters. We seek to understand the current factual business model and value chain relations, 
but also the background to how these structures have grown, what inherent challenges are and 
where possible entry points for new value chain relations emerge. 
Data analysis is performed as qualitative content analysis in NVivo and takes an iterative approach, 
starting with literature-driven coding based on categories for barriers, drivers, CBM archetypes and 
value chain relations that emerged from the (not-first-tier-focused) literature. Staying close to the 
case data, we will then gradually refine these codes to the case setting and first-tier context as new 
aspects emerge inductively from the data.  
Expected results 
Data collection for this study is ongoing, thus we present expected results here. Over the coming 
months, the collected data will be analyzed, transferred into an initial framework and then tested 
and validated against the reality of the case company, and adjusted where needed. The expected 
results include (1) identification of particularities faced by first-tier suppliers, e.g. connected to a 
lack of access to end users or usage data, that hinder or enable adoption of CBMs; (2) insights into 
the role of supply chain relations and reconfigurations in overcoming or harnessing particularities 
of first-tier suppliers; (3) synthesis of corresponding CBM configurations suitable to these 
particularities. 
By exploring and demonstrating options for how companies further upstream in the value chain 
can initiate and build CBMs, we aim to advance and bridge knowledge on multi-actor CBMs and 
circular supply chains. By investigating how actors other than ‘the usual suspects’ can enter the 
circularity space, we open up for more future research into these non-traditional agents behind 
circular business models.  
Keywords  
Business model; Circularity; First-tier supplier; Value chain relations; Collaboration 
 
Acknowledgements: This research is supported in part by the Mistra REES (Resource Efficient and 
Effective Solutions) program funded by Mistra (The Swedish Foundation for Strategic 
Environmental Research) (grant number DIA 2014/16). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
221 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
References  
Antikainen, M. & Valkokari, K. (2016) A Framework for Sustainable Circular Business Model Innovation. 
Technology 
Innovation 
Management 
Review. 
[Online] 
6 
(7), 
5–12. 
Available from: 
doi:10.22215/timreview1000. 
Bertassini, A.C., Zanon, L.G., Azarias, J.G., Gerolamo, M.C., et al. (2021) Circular Business Ecosystem 
Innovation: A guide for mapping stakeholders, capturing values, and finding new opportunities. 
Sustainable 
Production 
and 
Consumption. 
[Online] 
27, 
436–448. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1016/j.spc.2020.12.004. 
Bocken, N.M.P., Short, S.W., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice review to develop 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 65, 42–56. Available 
from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.039. 
Fehrer, J.A. & Wieland, H. (2020) A systemic logic for circular business models. Journal of Business Research. 
[Online] (March 2019), 1–12. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2020.02.010. 
Flyvbjerg, B. (2006) Five misunderstandings about case-study research. Qualitative Inquiry. [Online] 12 (2), 
219–245. Available from: doi:10.1177/1077800405284363. 
Frishammar, J. & Parida, V. (2019) Circular business model transformation. A roadmap for incumbent firms. 
California 
Management 
Review. 
[Online] 
61 
(2), 
5–29. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1177/0008125618811926. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Morioka, S.N., de Carvalho, M.M. & Evans, S. (2018) Business models and supply chains for 
the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 190, 712–721. Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.04.159. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Pieroni, M.P.P., Pigosso, D.C.A. & Soufani, K. (2020) Circular business models. A review. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
[Online] 
277, 
1–18. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.123741. 
Kanda, W., Geissdoerfer, M. & Hjelm, O. (2021) From circular business models to circular business 
ecosystems. Business Strategy and the Environment. [Online] 30 (6), 2814–2829. Available from: 
doi:10.1002/bse.2895. 
Konietzko, J., Bocken, N. & Hultink, E.J. (2020) Circular ecosystem innovation: An initial set of principles. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
[Online] 
253, 
119942. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.119942. 
Lewandowski, M. (2016) Designing the business models for circular economy-towards the conceptual 
framework. Sustainability (Switzerland). [Online]. pp.1–28. Available from: doi:10.3390/su8010043. 
Lieder, M. & Rashid, A. (2016) Towards circular economy implementation. A comprehensive review in context 
of manufacturing industry. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 115, 36–51. Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.12.042. 
Linder, M. & Williander, M. (2017) Circular Business Model Innovation: Inherent Uncertainties. Business 
Strategy and the Environment. [Online] 26 (2), 182–196. Available from: doi:10.1002/bse.1906. 
Nußholz, J.L.K. (2018) A circular business model mapping tool for creating value from prolonged product 
lifetime and closed material loops. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 197, 185–194. Available 
from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.112. 
Parida, V., Burström, T., Visnjic, I. & Wincent, J. (2019) Orchestrating industrial ecosystem in circular economy. 
A two-stage transformation model for large manufacturing companies. Journal of Business Research. 
[Online] 101, 715–725. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2019.01.006. 
Pieroni, M.P.P., McAloone, T.C. & Pigosso, D.C.A. (2021) Developing a process model for circular economy 
business model innovation within manufacturing companies. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 
299, 126785. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.126785. 
Reim, W., Sjödin, D. & Parida, V. (2021) Circular business model implementation. A capability development 
case study from the manufacturing industry. Business Strategy and the Environment. [Online] 30 (6), 
2745–2757. Available from: doi:10.1002/bse.2891. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
222 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Siggelkow, N. (2007) Persuasion With Case Studies. Academy of Management Journal. [Online] 50 (1), 20–24. 
Available from: doi:10.5465/amj.2007.24160882. 
Verschuren, P.J.M. (2003) Case study as a research strategy: Some ambiguities and opportunities. 
International Journal of Social Research Methodology: Theory and Practice. [Online] 6 (2), 121–139. 
Available from: doi:10.1080/13645570110106154. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
223 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Creating Social Impact with Startup 
Incubator Programs for Refugees 
Using social entrepreneurship to accelerate integration  
Andreas Hinz1,*, Michael von Kutzschenbach1, Rolf Meyer1  
1Institute of Management, School of Business, University of 
Applied Sciences and Arts Northwestern Switzerland FHNW 
*andreas.hinz@fhnw.ch 
Extended abstract 
Introduction 
This research focuses on social business model innovation at the example of startup incubator 
programs for refugees which promote entrepreneurial activities and support socio-economic 
integration (Harima & Freudenberg, 2020; Harima et al., 2019; Meister & Mauer, 2018). 
At the example of SINGA Switzerland, this work examines how to innovate its program offering to 
accelerate integration. Presented findings are based on a collaboration between FHNW and SINGA 
Switzerland, member of the international SINGA network promoting entrepreneurship among 
refugees. Seed-funding for an initialization project has been granted by Innosuisse, the national 
innovation agency. 
The guiding question for this work is how social entrepreneurship in the form of startup incubator 
programs for refugees can create social impact by addressing key challenges of integration. In this 
work, integration is defined as the process or result of refugees becoming part of the host society 
(Ruedin et al., 2020; Ruedin, 2011). Exemplary measures taken by incubators like SINGA to address 
these challenges include access to professional support (e.g., relevant training), resources (e.g., co-
working spaces) and the local network (e.g., contacts from mentors and coaches). These measures 
create social impact in that refugees feel empowered, become more confident, interact more 
proactively, take more responsibility and invest more effort in shaping a better future for 
themselves and the people around them. 
Methodology 
Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 22 individuals among two groups across 
Switzerland:  
15 integration experts at not-for-profit organizations and cantonal and governmental integration 
departments who assist integration of refugees in Switzerland 
7 refugees in Switzerland who have participated in the SINGA startup incubator program 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
224 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
Discussion  
Whether social, cultural or economic parameters are considered, experts agree that rapid 
integration of refugees is essential (Spadarotto et al., 2014; Marbach, Hainmueller & Hangartner, 
2018). However, challenges exist, often related to professional qualifications (and the recognition 
thereof), language skills, psychological stress and discrimination (Dustmann et al., 2017; Brücker et 
al., 2018; Spadarotto et al., 2014). Based on the literature and findings from interviews with 
refugees and integration experts, some challenges are discussed here. Language skills: These are 
important for various reasons (Bucken-Knapp et al., 2019; Gnesa, 2018) and refugees benefit from 
training at the earliest stage possible (Morlok et al., 2018). Interviewed refugees and integration 
experts explain why. First, refugees with good language skills face fewer obstacles when engaging 
in conversation. Second, refugees are empowered emotionally as the overcome obstacles, which 
builds confidence. Third, they are better able to get a foothold in the professional world because 
potential employers or co-founders recognize their language skills (Degler et al., 2017). Moreover, 
being confident supports refugees to be more outgoing and proactive which increases their chances 
to start a business or find employment.  
Professional qualifications: Refugees often cannot use qualifications from their home-countries 
because they are regarded inferior to the Swiss equivalent or are not recognized. This makes 
refugees less attractive for employers and undermines labor market integration (Bucken-Knapp et 
al., 2019; Spadarotto et al., 2014; Degler, Liebig & Senner, 2017; Gnesa, 2018). Interviewees 
corroborate this problem and suggest that policy makers should review approval processes of 
foreign qualifications. Moreover, obtaining new qualifications in Switzerland is a time-consuming 
endeavor. 
Psychological stress: Refugees may have had traumatic experiences causing psychological issues 
which may lead to reservations among employers or business partners (Degler, Liebig & Senner, 
2017; Dustmann et al., 2017; Efionayi-Mäder & Ruedin, 2014; Karlsdóttir et al., 2017). While this is 
a severe problem for the affected and their surroundings, psychological issues can undermine 
entrepreneurial efforts and job-search activities. 
Discrimination: Refugees and integration experts alike share instances of outright prejudice and 
discrimination because of different socio-cultural backgrounds. Additionally, interviewees note that 
the local network tends to be rather small and homogeneous as it mainly contains compatriots 
which magnifies the effect of discrimination. They are often poorly integrated themselves, which is 
no help to access the local ecosystem (Ruedin et al., 2020; Söhn & Marquardsen, 2017). Even when 
refugees become self-employed or find employment with the help of their networks, their pay 
tends to be lower and working conditions worse (Ruedin et al., 2020; Söhn & Marquardsen, 2017). 
These challenges need to be addressed to increase success of integration programs (Bucken-Knapp 
et al., 2019). Furthermore, interviewees observe that individual needs (depending on socio-cultural 
factors, level of education and traumas) are not accounted for in standardized integration 
programs. This undermines the effectiveness of standardized approaches (Ruedin et al., 2020; 
Degler et al., 2017) and suggests that integration processes should be complemented by voluntary 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
225 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
engagements at the local level (Schillinger, 2017). Such personal and trusted encounters between 
refugees and locals go far beyond typical parameters of integration (Schillinger, 2017).  
As interviewees suggest, startup incubator programs can help solve these challenges and create 
social impact. Accordingly, SINGA innovates its social business model with special emphasis on its 
program offering to build a participative environment where refugees can strive (Hynie, 2018). 
Exemplary approaches and respective views of program graduates are briefly outlined: 
Participants receive regular and personalized support from the program team, coaches, mentors 
and course instructors. This support structure empowers them to shape their future, gain 
confidence and self-esteem and make use of their potential. Beyond relationships with coaches and 
mentors, participants are encouraged to interact regularly with program peers. This is possible at 
various training courses and networking events. These interactions can go even further when 
participants engage in constructive discussions, share their entrepreneurial experiences, describe 
their challenges, ask peers for feedback or offer involvement in their projects. Program graduates 
agree that these interactions have encouraged them to step out of the comfort zone, confidently 
pitch their ideas, ask for help if necessary and develop their project further.  
In terms of expanding personal contacts, special attention is on helping participants build a strong 
local network. Whenever possible, mentors and coaches share their network so that participants 
can branch out into the local ecosystem on their own. They can build a more heterogenous network 
which assists them in starting a business or finding employment. On average, participants have 
connected with close to 50 professionally relevant individuals by the time they complete the 
program. Nevertheless, some graduates state that it remains challenging to take the next step in 
self-employment. By organizing networking events and growing the community of program 
graduates, SINGA intends to support continuous networking and integration in the local ecosystem.   
Instead of a standardized one-size-fits-all approach dealing with all participants alike, no matter 
what their individual needs, great emphasis is placed on development of trusted personal 
relationship among all involved parties. This creates an environment where specific requirements 
are considered and personal skills are expanded further. Most gradates confirm that they have 
improved professional skills considerably. Nevertheless, the process of becoming self-employed 
remains challenging. This suggests that an extended SINGA program over longer periods can add 
value. 
Language courses are an integral part of the program. Beyond that, all communication and training 
courses are done in the local language. This provides a safe environment to build language skills 
and gain confidence using it. Nevertheless, some graduates state that language barriers persist 
when interacting with locals which undermines the integration process. This suggests that language 
training should remain a priority upon graduation from the SINGA program. 
As a startup incubator program focusing on entrepreneurial skills, participants are prepared for self-
employment. This represents an attractive alternative to the job market where they face 
disadvantages in terms of qualifications and language skills. Program graduates suggest that this 
support structure with coaching and mentoring should be available beyond graduation from the 
program. SINGA is evaluating this option, however, feasibility depends on the availability of 
voluntary mentors and coaches. 
 
Conclusion 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
226 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
This research illustrates that startup incubator programs for refugees like SINGA have significant 
potential to accelerate social integration in the host-country, which enables refugees to lead better 
lives. Social impact is created in a way that they feel more “at home”, have more interactions with 
others, become more confident and empowered, have higher self-esteem, make better use of their 
professional skills and become self-sufficient.   
When going through the mechanisms of social business model innovation at the example of startup 
incubators, several positively re-enforcing feedback loops become apparent. Gaining deeper 
insights into these mechanisms represents promising avenues for further research to create higher 
social impact for refugees and their communities. 
Keywords  
Startup incubators for refugees, integration, social business model innovation. 
References  
AbuJarour, S. and Krasnova, H., 2017, June. Understanding the role of ICTs in promoting social inclusion: The 
case of Syrian refugees in Germany. In Proceedings of the 25th European Conference on Information 
Systems (ECIS), Guimarães, Portugal (pp. 1792-1806). Guimarães. 
Bellino, M.J. and Dryden-Peterson, S., 2019. Inclusion and exclusion within a policy of national integration: 
Refugee education in Kenya’s Kakuma Refugee Camp. British Journal of Sociology of Education, 40(2), 
pp.222-238. 
Brücker, H., Rother, N., Schupp, J. and für Migration, B., 2018. IAB-BAMF-SOEP-Befragung von Geflüchteten 
2016: Studiendesign, Feldergebnisse sowie Analysen zu schulischer wie beruflicher Qualifikation, 
Sprachkenntnissen sowie kognitiven Potenzialen (Vol. 30, p. 73). DEU. 
Bucken‐Knapp, G., Fakih, Z. and Spehar, A., 2019. Talking about integration: The voices of Syrian refugees 
taking part in introduction programmes for integration into Swedish society. International 
Migration, 57(2), pp.221-234. 
Degler, E., Liebig, T. and Senner, A.S., 2017. Integrating Refugees into the Labour Market-Where Does 
Germany Stand?. ifo DICE Report, 15(3), pp.6-10. 
Dustmann, C., Fasani, F., Frattini, T., Minale, L. and Schönberg, U., 2017. On the economics and politics of 
refugee migration. Economic policy, 32(91), pp.497-550. 
Efionayi-Mäder, D. and Ruedin, D., 2014. Aufenthaltsverläufe vorläufig Aufgenommener in der Schweiz. In 
Datenanalyse im Auftrag der Eidgenössischen Kommission für Migrationsfragen EKM. Neuenburg: 
Schweizerisches Forum für Migrations-und Bevölkerungsstudien. Abgerufen von: https://www. ekm. 
admin. ch/dam/data/ekm/dokumentation/materialien/mat_va_d. pdf. 
Gnesa, E., 2018. Verbesserung der Integration von Flüchtlingen und vorläufig Aufgenommenen in den 
Arbeitsmarkt. Bericht und Empfehlungen des Beauftragten für Flüchtlinge und Wirtschaft. Bern: 
Staatssekretariat für Migration. 
Harima, A. and Freudenberg, J., 2020. Co-creation of social entrepreneurial opportunities with refugees. 
Journal of Social Entrepreneurship, 11(1), pp.40-64. 
Harima, A., Freudenberg, J. and Halberstadt, J., 2019. Functional domains of business incubators for refugee 
entrepreneurs. Journal of Enterprising Communities: People and Places in the Global Economy. 
Hynie, M., 2018. Refugee integration: Research and policy. Peace and Conflict: Journal of Peace Psychology, 
24(3), p.265. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
227 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Justiz, 
E. 
and 
Polizeidepartement, 
E.J.P.D., 
2018. 
Integrationsagenda 
Schweiz. 
Bericht 
der 
Koordinationsgruppe vom. 
Karlsdóttir, A., Sigurjónsdóttir, H.R., Ström Hildestrand, Å. and Cuadrado, A., 2017. Policies and measures for 
speeding up labour market integration of refugees in the Nordic region: A knowledge overview. 
Marbach, M., Hainmueller, J. and Hangartner, D., 2018. The long-term impact of employment bans on the 
economic integration of refugees. Science advances, 4(9), p.eaap9519. 
Meister, A.D. and Mauer, R., 2018. Understanding refugee entrepreneurship incubation–an embeddedness 
perspective. International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behavior & Research. 
Ruedin, D., 2011. Conceptualizing the integration of immigrants and other groups. Working Paper. 
Ruedin, D., Efionayi-Mäder, D., Üllen, S., Bilger, V. and Hofmann, M., 2020. Wirkungszusammenhänge 
Migration, Integration und Rückkehr: eine Literaturanalyse im Auftrag des SEM in Erfüllung des 
Postulats 16.3790 «Migration. Langfristige Folgen der Integration». Université de Neuchâtel. 
Spadarotto, C., Bieberschulte, M., Walker, K., Morlok, M. and Oswald, A., 2014. Erwerbsbeteiligung von 
anerkannten Flüchtlingen und vorläufig Aufgenommenen auf dem Schweizer Arbeitsmarkt. KEK-CDC 
Consultants and B, S, S. on behalf of the Federal Office of Migration. 
Söhn, J., Birke, P., Bluhm, F., Marquardsen, K., Prekodravac, M., Vogel, B. and Prahms, A., 2017. 
Erfolgsfaktoren für die Integration von Flüchtlingen. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
228 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Blockchain for a circular plastics 
economy 
Building supportive ecosystems for blockchain-based 
circular business models 
Nina Huijberts1,2,+, Laura Piscicelli*,2 
1Dutch Blockchain Coalition, The Hague, The N; 2Copernicus Institute 
of Sustainable Development, Utrecht University, The Netherlands 
+nina.huijberts@dutchblockchaincoalition.org 
Extended abstract 
Plastics are versatile materials involved in almost every aspect of daily life for i.a. clothing and 
footwear, packaging, transportation and telecommunications (Thompson et al., 2009). The 
production of plastics has almost 200-folded since 1950 and is estimated to double within the next 
20 years (Andrady & Neal, 2009; Schwarz et al., 2021). Under a business-as-usual scenario, 
however, the manufacturing and disposal of plastics could be responsible for over 56 gigatons of 
cumulative greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions globally by 2050, which accounts for more than 10% 
of the entire remaining carbon budget to stay below the 1.5°C change in global mean temperature 
(Center for International Environmental Law, 2019). Therefore, there is a growing consensus on the 
need to move away from a linear, ‘take-make-dispose’ approach to plastics and embrace circular 
business models able to narrow (e.g. reducing material use and reduce waste), slow down (e.g. 
reusing and repairing products) and close (e.g. recycling) resource flows (Bocken et al., 2016; 
Kirchherr et al., 2018; Kleine Jäger and Piscicelli, 2021; Schwarz et al., 2021; World Economic Forum 
et al., 2016).  
New digital technologies such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, Internet of Things and 
blockchain can enable and accelerate the transition to a circular economy (Dahl Andersen et al., 
2021). For example, blockchain – a distributed virtual database that maintains a permanent and 
tamper-proof record of transactional data – can support the reuse and recycling of plastics by 
serving as a trust-based platform for waste segregators, recyclers and manufacturers to exchange 
reliable information about the availability, quantity and quality of recycled plastic feedstock 
(Chidepatil et al., 2021; Sankaran, 2019). Besides enabling the monitoring and tracking of plastics 
waste, blockchain technology can improve resource and waste management practices by 
facilitating rewards-based reuse and recycling initiatives, as well as the implementation of 
cryptocurrency payments and smart contracts (Steenmans et al., 2021). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
229 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
In the last decade, a variety of blockchain-based circular plastics initiatives have been developed 
worldwide like those launched by the Plastic Bank to encourage plastic recycling in developing 
countries by means of financial rewards paid in cryptocurrency or RecycleGO, which developed a 
blockchain-backed chain of custody system for tracking the lifecycle of recyclable materials 
(Steenmans et al., 2021). Most of these projects are led by sustainable start-ups, although small 
and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and multinational companies (MNCs) are also increasingly 
experimenting with blockchain-based circular business models. However, the number of existing 
initiatives remains rather low and only few of them have reached the piloting or operational stages, 
while some others are discontinued after a few years (Steenmans et al., 2021). This can largely be 
explained by the fact that the adoption and diffusion of innovative technologies to solve or mitigate 
sustainability challenges often require significant socio-cultural, economic, and legislative changes 
(Planko et al., 2016).  
Technology-innovating firms thus need to engage with a broad range of public and private actors 
(e.g. suppliers, customers, governments, competitors, media) to build a supportive business 
ecosystem around their new technology (Iansiti and Levien, 2004). Planko et al. (2016) identified 
four overarching goals (i.e. ‘technology development and optimization’, ‘market creation’, ‘socio-
cultural changes’ and ‘coordination’) and a set of related system building activities that 
entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial managers can pursue in order to create such a favorable 
ecosystem. However, the strategy framework for collective system building developed by Planko et 
al. (2016) draws on insights from the Dutch smart grid sector and its applicability to other industries 
and emerging technologies like blockchain requires further examination. Moreover, the framework 
does not discriminate between startup entrepreneurs vs entrepreneurial managers in SMEs and 
MNCs. Yet, the two types of entrepreneurs have access to different (financial, physical, human, 
technological, reputational, organizational) resources and have different characteristics (e.g. firm 
age, size and level of diversification in business practices), which may have an influence on what 
goals and collective system building activities they (can) pursue and the success of their actions. 
This empirical study aims to fill these knowledge gaps by investigating how entrepreneurs (in 
startup, SMEs and MNCs) build supportive ecosystems for blockchain-based business models that 
enable a circular economy for plastics. This research adopts a qualitative, multiple case study design 
(Yin, 2003). Data was collected through desk research and semi-structured interviews. Desk 
research was performed to compile a list of active (global) blockchain-based initiatives for circular 
plastics and to collect data on their activities, type of blockchain used, stage (i.e. pilot, development, 
operational, discontinued), and (inter)national focus of operations. All 20 initiatives identified were 
invited to participate in the following round of qualitative interviews. 12 in-depth, semi-structured 
interviews (with 6 startups, 3 SMEs, and 3 MNEs) were conducted in March 2022. The interviews 
lasted on average one hour, and were recorded, transcribed verbatim and coded by means of 
thematic analysis.  
The results of the study uncover common patterns in the type of goals and collective system 
building activities pursued by different types of entrepreneurs, and how these are influenced by 
the resources available to them. Our findings provide practical insights for entrepreneurs striving 
to develop and commercialize blockchain-based circular business models and extend existing 
knowledge on the processes of creating and orchestrating business ecosystems for the successful 
wide uptake of a blockchain-driven circular plastics economy. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
230 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Keywords  
Circular plastics economy, blockchain, business ecosystem, collective system building 
References  
Andrady, A. L. & Neal, M. A. (2009) Applications and societal benefits of plastics. Philosophical Transactions 
of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. 364(1526), 1977–1984. 
Center for International Environmental Law (2019) Plastics & Climate: The Hidden Costs of a Plastic Planet. 
Available at: www.ciel.org/plasticandclimate [Accessed 15th February 2021].  
Bocken, N.M., De Pauw, I., Bakker, C. & Van Der Grinten, B. (2016) Product design and business model 
strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering. 33(5), 308–320. 
Chidepatil, A., Bindra, P., Kulkarni, D., Qazi, M., Kshirsagar, M. & Sankaran, K. (2020) From trash to cash: How 
blockchain and multi-sensor-driven artificial intelligence can transform circular economy of plastic 
waste? Administrative Sciences. 10(2), 23.  
Dahl Andersen, A., Frenken, K., Galaz, V., Kern, F., Klerkx, L., Mouthaan, M., Piscicelli, L., Schor, J.B. & 
Vaskelainen, T. (2021) On digitalization and sustainability transitions. Environmental Innovation and 
Societal Transitions. 41, 96–98. 
Iansiti, M. & Levien, R. (2004) Strategy as ecology. Harvard Business Review. 82, 68–81.  
Kirchherr, J., Piscicelli, L., Bour, R., Kostense-Smit, E., Muller, J., Huibrechtse-Truijens, A. & Hekkert, M. (2018) 
Barriers to the circular economy: Evidence from the European Union (EU). Ecological 
Economics. 150, 264-272. 
Kleine Jäger, J. & Piscicelli, L. (2021) Collaborations for circular food packaging: the set-up and partner 
selection process. Sustainable Production and Consumption. 26, 733–740. 
Planko, J., Cramer, J., Chappin, M. & Hekkert, M. (2016) Strategic collective system building to commercialize 
sustainability innovations. Journal of Cleaner Production. 112, 2328–2341.  
Sankaran, K. (2019) Carbon emission and plastic pollution: How circular economy, blockchain, and artificial 
intelligence support energy transition? Journal of Innovation Management. 7(4), 7–13.  
Schwarz, A., de Ruiter, R., Zondervan, E., van Eijk, F. & Huybrechts, L. (2021) A circular economy for 
plastics: Lets turn challenges into opportunities. Den Haag, TNO. 
Steenmans, K., Taylor, P. & Steenmans, I. (2021) Blockchain technology for governance of plastic waste 
management: Where are we? Social Sciences. 10(11), 434. 
Thompson, R. C., Swan, S. H., Moore, C. J. & Vom Saal, F. S. (2009) Our plastic age. Philosophical Transactions 
of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, 364(1526), 1973–1976. 
World Economic Forum (WEF), Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF), McKinsey & Company (2016) The New 
Plastics 
Economy 
— 
Rethinking 
the 
Future 
of 
Plastics. 
Available 
from: 
https://ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/the-new-plastics-economy-rethinking-the-future-of-plastics 
[Accessed 15th February 2021].  
Yin, R.K. (2003) Case Study Research (Third edition, Vol. 5). Sage Publications, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
231 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Entrepreneurship and its Ecosystem 
in Circular Fashion Transition: A 
Systematic Literature Review 
 
Younghyun Kim1,* 
1Urban Planning, Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and 
Preservation, Columbia University  
*yk2767@columbia.edu 
Extended abstract 
This paper provides a systematic literature review on circular economy in the fashion industry, with 
the aim to elucidate the role of entrepreneurship and its supportive ecosystem in driving a system-
level transition towards circular fashion.  By combining insights from the multi-level perspective 
(MLP) of sustainability transition literature and circular economy ecosystems literature, this review 
highlights how entrepreneurial niches are discussed in existing circular fashion research, how these 
niches interact with the dominant linear, fast fashion regime, and how ecosystem actors facilitate 
flows of material, knowledge and values at the niche-regime interface, thereby scaling niches and 
destablizing the regime.   
The fashion industry is characterized as a cultural and creative industry (CCI) that is driven by 
constant innovation and entrepreneurship.  While the aesthetic and symbolic elements are defining 
features of the industry’s value creation activities, its material implications make it one of the most 
polluting industrial sectors.  The pressing challenges in the industry arise from the industrial 
adoption of the fast fashion paradigm, in which the production and consumption regimes are 
characterized by a linear, take-make-waste mode of industrial practices and institutions that has 
solidified long-distance supply chain management systems, exploitative labor practices, and short 
lifetime of clothes (Bhardwaj and Fairhurst, 2010; Moretto et al., 2018; Niinimäki et al., 2020).   
Calling for a new textile and fashion economy, the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2017, 22) defines 
circular fashion as an industrial economy where “clothes, textiles, and fibers are kept at their 
highest value during use and re-enter the economy afterwards, never ending up as waste.”  This 
discourse follows the more general circular economy (CE) paradigm, for which scholars and 
practitioners characterize as an industrial economy that is restorative and regenerative by intention 
and design, where biological components return to the biosphere and technical components are 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
232 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
collected for reuse, repair, remanufacture, and recycle (Ghisellini, Cialani and Ulgiati, 2016; 
Geissdoerfer et al., 2017; Kirchherr, Reike and Hekkert, 2017).   
Businesses, entrepreneurs, and their new business models are assessed to be the main drivers in 
CE transitions (Bocken et al., 2016; Geissdoerfer et al., 2020; Henry et al., 2020).  In the case of 
fashion industry as well, business and supply chain management literature has identified various 
design and business strategies to practice circular fashion, which could be categorized as (1) 
narrowing the resource loop by increasing resource and energy efficiency in the production process 
of fashion products, (2) slowing the resource loop that extends the lifespan of clothes through reuse 
and repair, or (3) closing the resource loop by recycling textile waste as production input 
(Goldsworthy, Earley and Politowicz, 2018; Pal and Gander, 2018).  
While there is emerging literature that examines the specific practices of circular fashion businesses, 
actors involved, and the challenges they face in narrowing, slowing, and closing the industry’s 
resource loops (Franco, 2017; Todeschini et al., 2017; Brydges, 2021), how circular fashion 
entrepreneurs could make system-level transitions and the kind of ecosystem actors that support 
these transitions dynamics are yet to be investigated in depth.  Hence, by conducting a systematic 
literature review, the key research question that this paper aims to address is what kind of 
supportive ecosystem facilitates entrepreneurs to drive system-level transitions toward circular 
fashion?  I bring in the multi-level perspective (MLP) of sustainability transition literature, thereby 
understanding system-level transition of the fashion industry as processes of entrepreneurial 
niches in circular fashion disrupting the dominant linear, fast fashion regime (Buchel et al., 2022).  
Such system-level transition processes require an understanding of the interaction of multiple 
actors that form an ecosystem around the common system-level goal to narrow, slow, and/or close 
resource loops of production and consumption in the fashion industry, through which flows of 
material, knowledge, and economic values are enabled (Aarikka-Stenroos et al., 2021).    
As the intersection of entrepreneurship and circular fashion is still an emerging topic, this paper 
reviews circular fashion literature in general and analyzes its explicit and/or implicit arguments on 
entrepreneurship and its supportive ecosystem actors.  The key databases used for the systematic 
literature review are Scopus and Web of Science. The key terms in the search criteria were selected 
to allow for the broadest selection of articles written on the topic, with reference to key terms used 
in previous literature reviews on circular and sustainable fashion such as Jia et al. (2020), which 
takes a supply chain management perspective, and Ki et al. (2020) from corporate stakeholder 
engagement perspective.  The key terms and operators used in this paper are “circular” AND 
“fashion” OR “textile*” OR “cloth*” OR “apparel” OR “garment,” found in the title, abstract, or 
keywords in published journal articles from 2010 to 2022.  This specification yields 2,019 articles in 
total, and 509 articles excluding duplicates.  A careful reading of the titles, abstracts, and findings 
were guided by the following criteria:  
Does the paper contribute to research on emerging entrepreneurship that applies circular economy 
strategies (narrowing, slowing, and/or closing) in the fashion industry?  In other words, does the 
paper address an emerging niche in circular fashion? 
Does the paper contribute to understanding of how niches conflict or conform with the dominant 
fashion regime?  
Does the paper discuss or imply the role of supportive actors that facilitate circular fashion niche 
scaling or regime disruption?   

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
233 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Based on these criteria, a total of 30 articles are selected for the analysis.  Guided by the multi-level 
perspective (MLP) of the socio-technical sustainability transition literature, as well as  Aarikka-
Stenroos et al.’s (2021) conception of the CE ecosystem, the thematic analysis of the selected 
articles assesses (1) what kind of entrepreneurial niches are researched, (2) how niches interact 
with the dominant, fast fashion regime, and (3) how ecosystem actors facilitate flows of material, 
knowledge, and values at the niche-regime interface of circular fashion. 
The preliminary findings of this systematic literature review are that (1) the main aspect of the 
fashion regime that entrepreneurs have difficulty disrupting is the consumption culture of the linear, 
fast fashion paradigm, (2) the forms of niches in circular fashion entrepreneurship are diverse, and 
(3) supportive ecosystem actors of circular fashion entrepreneurship need to facilitate the flows of 
material, knowledge, and values at the niche-regime interaction to drive system-level transitions, 
hence playing a bridging role between niche entrepreneurs and regime actors.  These findings 
contribute to providing a sustainability transition lens to the emerging circular fashion dynamics 
and understanding how niche entrepreneurs and their supportive ecosystem actors could make a 
system-level transformation towards CE.  The findings also guide tailored policymaking and 
business decisions to enable entrepreneurs and their ecosystem to drive system transition towards 
the CE.  The paper strongly aligns with the theme of Track 1.2 of the 2022 New Business Model 
conference, as the track focuses on ecosystem thinking and discussions on ways that a supportive 
ecosystem could strengthen the various stakeholders’ endeavors in developing and innovating 
sustainable businesses.  
Keywords 
circular economy, fashion industry, circular fashion, circular economy ecosystem, sustainability 
transition 
References  
Aarikka-Stenroos, L., Ritala, P. and D. W. Thomas, L. (2021) ‘Circular economy ecosystems: a typology, 
definitions, and implications’, in Teerikangas, S. et al., Research Handbook of Sustainability Agency. 
Edward Elgar Publishing, pp. 260–276. doi:10.4337/9781789906035.00024. 
Bhardwaj, V. and Fairhurst, A. (2010) ‘Fast fashion: response to changes in the fashion industry’, The 
International Review of Retail, Distribution and Consumer Research, 20(1), pp. 165–173. 
doi:10.1080/09593960903498300. 
Bocken, N.M.P. et al. (2016) ‘Product design and business model strategies for a circular economy’, Journal 
of Industrial and Production Engineering, 33(5), pp. 308–320. 
doi:10.1080/21681015.2016.1172124. 
Brydges, T. (2021) ‘Closing the loop on take, make, waste: Investigating circular economy practices in the 
Swedish fashion industry’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 293, p. 126245. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.126245. 
Buchel, S. et al. (2022) ‘Disrupting the status quo: a sustainability transitions analysis of the fashion system’, 
Sustainability: Science, Practice and Policy, 18(1), pp. 231–246. 
doi:10.1080/15487733.2022.2040231. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2017) A New Textile Economy: Redesigning Fashion’s Future. Available at: 
http://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/publications. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
234 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Franco, M.A. (2017) ‘Circular economy at the micro level: A dynamic view of incumbents’ struggles and 
challenges in the textile industry’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 168, pp. 833–845. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.09.056. 
Geissdoerfer, M. et al. (2017) ‘The Circular Economy – A new sustainability paradigm?’, Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 143, pp. 757–768. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.12.048. 
Geissdoerfer, M. et al. (2020) ‘Circular business models: A review’, Journal of Cleaner Production, p. 123741. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.123741. 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C. and Ulgiati, S. (2016) ‘A review on circular economy: the expected transition to a 
balanced interplay of environmental and economic systems’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 114, 
pp. 11–32. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.09.007. 
Goldsworthy, K., Earley, R. and Politowicz, K. (2018) ‘Circular Speeds: A Review of Fast & Slow Sustainable 
Design Approaches for Fashion & Textile Applications’, Journal of Textile Design Research and 
Practice, 6(1), pp. 42–65. doi:10.1080/20511787.2018.1467197. 
Henry, M. et al. (2020) ‘A typology of circular start-ups: An Analysis of 128 circular business models’, Journal 
of Cleaner Production, 245, p. 118528. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.118528. 
Jia, F. et al. (2020) ‘The circular economy in the textile and apparel industry: A systematic literature review’, 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 259, p. 120728. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.120728. 
Ki, C. (Chloe), Chong, S.M. and Ha‐Brookshire, J.E. (2020) ‘How fashion can achieve sustainable 
development through a circular economy and stakeholder engagement: A systematic literature 
review’, Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 27(6), pp. 2401–2424. 
doi:10.1002/csr.1970. 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D. and Hekkert, M. (2017) ‘Conceptualizing the circular economy: An analysis of 114 
definitions’, Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 127, pp. 221–232. 
doi:10.1016/j.resconrec.2017.09.005. 
Moretto, A. et al. (2018) ‘Designing a roadmap towards a sustainable supply chain: A focus on the fashion 
industry’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 193, pp. 169–184. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.04.273. 
Niinimäki, K. et al. (2020) ‘The environmental price of fast fashion’, Nature Reviews Earth & Environment, 
1(4), pp. 189–200. doi:10.1038/s43017-020-0039-9. 
Pal, R. and Gander, J. (2018) ‘Modelling environmental value: An examination of sustainable business 
models within the fashion industry’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 184, pp. 251–263. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.02.001. 
Todeschini, B.V. et al. (2017) ‘Innovative and sustainable business models in the fashion industry: 
Entrepreneurial drivers, opportunities, and challenges’, Business Horizons, 60(6), pp. 759–770. 
doi:10.1016/j.bushor.2017.07.003. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
235 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Exploring the business ecosystem 
for green business models – a 
literature review 
 
Mirielle Torgersen1,2,*, Emma Ek2, Gunnar Andersson1, Peter 
Lindgren2 
1Department of Economics, Innovation and Society, Østfold University 
College, Norway; 2Department of Business Development and 
Technology, Aarhus BSS - Aarhus University, Herning, Denmark 
*Mirielle.Torgersen@hiof.no 
Extended abstract 
Abstract 
Green business models contribute to environmental benefits and are financially viable. But no 
green business model can exist alone and must be understood and measured together with other 
business models, both traditional and green business models. There is a gap in the literature 
exploring green business models from a business ecosystem perspective. A systematic literature 
review provides a such insight from the existing green business model literature. The review 
indicates that there are various publications that address green business models in a business 
ecosystem perspective, however, there is a lack of categorising the various approaches in a holistic 
view.  
Introduction 
Green Business Model (GBM) could be defined as “business models which support the development 
of product and services (systems) with environmental benefits, reduce resource use/waste and 
which are economic viable. These business models have a lower environmental impact than 
traditional business models” (FORA 2010). Green business models contribute to environmental 
benefits and at the same time should be economic viable. There are many articles that review 
sustainable business models (Bocken et al., 2014; Comin et al., 2019; Goni et al., 2021; Lüdeke-
Freund et al., 2018), which could defined as business models that create, capture, and deliver 
economic, social, and environmental value (Bocken et al., 2014). To narrow it down, this study 
focuses on Green Business Models as the environmental, green lenses of sustainability in the 
business model ecosystem perspective.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
236 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The importance of the business ecosystem perspective for green business models has been 
suggested by serval authors. Any business model, either physical, digital and/or virtual is a network-
based business model because a business model can´t exist alone (Lindgren and Rasmussen, 2013), 
and the same goes for green business models. All green business models in such a network must 
be understood and measured to classify the degree of green in the business ecosystem in order to 
get a more accurate picture (Lindgren 2021). Sommer (2012) gives a GBM definitions where the 
entire value chain is included: “a business model that represents a significant improvement 
(discontinuous leap) in overall environmental performance relating to its entire value chain system 
vis-à-vis that of conventional business models (i.e., the reference case). A value network could be 
described as the focal business together with its users, customers and network that are linked 
together through tangible and intangible relations that carry the business model´s value 
transactions (Allee 2020).  
There is a gap in the existing literature addressing green business models beyond single business 
model perspective (Henriksen et. al, 2012 and Lindgren, 2021). The success of green business model 
relates to green performance in an ecosystem perspective, and therefore forms the purpose of this 
research article; to conduct a systematic literature review to explore the business ecosystem 
perspective for green business models. The research question is established: 
What Green Business Models in a business ecosystem perspective exists in the GBM literature? 
New contributions from this research are related to the field of defining and implementing green 
business models in the contribution to sustainable development.  
Methodology 
The main objective of this study is to explore GBMs in a business ecosystem perspective. A 
systematic literature review approach will be conducted to this work to ensure evidence-based 
results (Thomas and Harden 2008). The systematic review will have a structured approach to secure 
transparent and replicable results, consisting of a data collection part for planning the review; and 
a data analysis part for reporting and synthesising the findings of the conducted review.  (Tranfield 
et. al 2003) Implications of the thematic analysis will be given in the discussion session.  
The literature review process started January 2021 to identify publications related to green 
business model. Most of the publications were identified by search in the academic databases 
Elsevier Science Direct, Elsevier Scopus, Sage, Web of Science with the search term “green business 
model” as the first initial screening criteria. This yielded 246 publications. Several publications had 
“green business model” just as a reference, or even confusingly only in the abstract or as keyword 
without addressing the topic in the text. Such papers along with duplicates were excluded giving 
103 relevant publications. The last step was about identifying publications related to green business 
models in a business ecosystem perspective to be able to answer the research questions. This 
selection criteria gave XX publications for assessment.  
Preliminary results 
An overview of different approaches of green business models in the business ecosystem are shown 
in table 1.  
GBMs IN THE BUSINESS 
ECOSYSTEM 
AUTHOR(S) (YEAR) 
TITLE 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
237 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
A shift in Market trends,  
Network 
Lindgren and Taran 
(2011) 
 
A Futuristic Outlook on Business 
Models and Business Mode Innovation 
in a Future Green Society 
 
Stakeholders in the external 
environment 
 
Sommer (2012) 
Managing Green Business Model 
Transformations  
 
Partnership, 
Knowledge partnership,  
Green Supply Chain Management, 
Take-Back-Mechanism, 
Cradle to Cradle, 
Industrial Symbiosis 
 
Henriksen et. al 
(2012) 
Green Business Model Innovation - 
Empirical and literature studies 
 
System thinking,  
Design thinking,  
Entire ecosystems, 
Holistic thinking 
 
Bisgaard et. al (2012) 
Green Business Model Innovation, 
Conceptualisation, Next Practice and 
Policy 
Stakeholder engagement 
Abuzeinab and Arif 
(2014) 
Stakeholder engagement: A green 
business model indicator 
 
Interconnections between business 
models, industry, and the external 
environment 
 
Nair and Paulose 
(2014) 
Emergence of green business models: 
The case of algae biofuel for aviation 
Circular Value Chain external to the 
business 
 
Roos (2014) 
Business Model Innovation to Crate 
and Capture Resource Value in Future 
Circular Material Chains 
 
Business Ecosystem, 
Stakeholders in the ecosystem 
Collaboration 
Rajala and 
Westerlund (2016) 
Environmental sustainability in 
industrial manufacturing: reexamining 
the greening of Interface's business 
model 
 
 
 
Overcome constraints outside business 
Abuzeinab and Arif 
(2017) 
Barriers to MNEs green business 
models in the UK construction sector: 
An ISM analysis  
 
Life-cycle-approach,  
LCA (Life-cycle-assessment) 
Løkke et. al (2020) 
How green are supported ‘green’ 
business models? Time for the life cycle 
approach to enter public support 
programmes 
 
Green business model ecosystem, 
Business model ecosystem,  Ecosystem 
service, 
Value network, 
Business model ecosystem value 
network, 
Open business model value network, 
Stakeholder approach: Triple, 
quadruple and quinto Helix 
 
Lindgren (2021) 
A Scoping Review and Framework of 
Green Business Models Related to 
Future Wireless Technology: Bridging 
Green Business Models to Future 
Wireless Technology 
 
Etc. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
238 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 1: Green business models in business ecosystem 
Discussion 
The literature review indicates that there are various publications that address green business 
models in a business ecosystem perspective, however, there are a lack of categorising the various 
approaches in a holistic view. Based on table 1, a categorisation could be carried out to get more 
insight into the topic.  
Keywords 
Green business model, business ecosystem 
References  
Abuzeinab, A. & Arif, M. (2014) Stakeholder engagement: A green business model indicator. Procedia 
Economics and Finance. 18, 505-512.  
Abuzeinab, A., Arif, M. & Qadri, M.A (2017) Barriers to MNEs green business models in the UK construction 
sector: An ISM analysis. Journal of Cleaner Production. 160, 27-37. 
Allee, V. (2000) RECONFIGURING THE VALUE NETWORK. Journal of Business Strategy. 21 (4), 36-39.  
Bisgaard, T., Henriksen. K. & Bjerre, M. (2012) Green Business Model Innovation - Conceptualisation, Next 
Practice and Policy. Nordic Innovation Publication. 2012:12 
Bocken, N. M., Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014). A literature and practice review to develop 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner production, 65, 42-56. 
Comin, L. C., Aguiar, C. C., Sehnem, S., Yusliza, M. Y., Cazella, C. F., & Julkovski, D. J. (2019). Sustainable 
business models: a literature review. Benchmarking: An International Journal, 27(7), 2028-2047. 
FORA (2010) Green business models in the Nordic region: a key to promote sustainable growth, green paper 
for the Nordic Council of Ministers, FORA, Copenhagen 
Goni, F. A., Chofreh, A. G., Orakani, Z. E., Klemeš, J. J., Davoudi, M., & Mardani, A. (2021). Sustainable business 
model: A review and framework development. Clean Technologies and Environmental Policy, 23(3), 
889-897. 
Henriksen, K., Bjerre, M., Bissgaard, T., Almasi, A.M. & Damgaard, E. (2012) Business Model Innovation - 
Empirical and literature studies. Nordic Innovation Publication. 2012:20. 
Lindgren, P. & Taran, Y. (2011) A Futuristic Outlook on Business Models and Business Model Innovation in a 
Future Green Society. Journal of Green Engineering, 229–239. 
Lindgren, P. & Rasmussen, O. (2013) The Business Model Cube. Journal of Multi Business Model Innovation 
and Technology. 135-182 
Lindgren, P. (2021). A Scoping Review and Framework of Green Business Models Related to Future Wireless 
Technology: Bridging Green Business Models to Future Wireless Technology. Journal of NBICT.  1, 
329-362. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L., & Breuer, H. (2018). The sustainable business model 
pattern 
taxonomy—45 
patterns 
to 
support 
sustainability-oriented 
business 
model 
innovation. Sustainable Production and Consumption, 15, 145-162. 
Løkke, S., Schmidt, J.H., Lyhne, I., Kørnøv, L. & Revsbech, R. (2020) How green are supported ‘green’ business 
models? Time for the life cycle approach to enter public support programmes. The International 
Journal of Life Cycle Assessment. 25, 2086-2092. 
Nair, S. & H. Paulose (2014). Emergence of green business models: The case of algae 
biofuel for aviation. Energy Policy. 65, 175-184. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
239 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Rajala, R., Westerlund, M. & Lampikoski, T. (2016) Environmental sustainability in industrial manufacturing: 
re-examining the greening of Interface's business model. Journal of Cleaner Production. 115, 52-61. 
Roos, G. (2014) Business Model Innovation to Create and Capture Resource Value in Future Circular Material 
Chains. Resources. 3, 248-274.  
Sommer. A. (2012) Managing Green Business Model Transformations. Berlin Heidelberg, Springer-Verlag.  
Thomas, J. & A. Harden (2008) Methods for the thematic synthesis of qualitative research in systematic 
reviews. BMC medical research methodology. 8 (1), 45-45. 
Tranfield, D., et al. (2003). Towards a Methodology for Developing Evidence-Informed Management 
Knowledge by Means of Systematic Review. British Journal of Management. 14 (3), 207-222. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
240 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Social Franchising as an innovative 
sustainable business model  
 
Learning from a local ecosystem of housing initiatives 
for very low income people 
 
Versele Alexis1,*, Molderez Ingrid2*, Snick Anne1,2,  
1KU Leuven, Faculty of Building Physics and Sustainable Design, 
Ghent and Aalst Technology Campuses; 2KU Leuven, Faculty of 
Economics and Business, Centre for Economics and Sustainable 
Entrepreneurship  
* ingrid.molderez@kuleuven.be 
Extended abstract 
Summary 
This paper contributes to the challenges of adequate housing and scalability of social enterprises 
by suggesting an innovative sustainable business model. The concept of social franchising will be 
illustrated by the analysis of two Belgian cases, Het Pandschap and Renoseec. The research is based 
on in depth interviews with relevant stakeholders of these organisations: the founders and 
operational managers of the organisation, the owners of the houses, the government, the tenants 
and the local community. These two organisations were able to experiment, test and improve 
diverse approaches that support owners in improving housing conditions, thanks to an extensive 
collaboration with and support from the local government. The projects started in one city, but 
expanded to other cities and regions thanks to its bottom-up approach: connection with the local 
context, network of local contractors, and collaboration with other local organisations in the civil 
society. Vital for this social franchising concept is the open-source distribution of knowledge and 
the sharing of sustainable values. These key features of the region-wide network are implemented 
by (1) setting up regional campaigns through partnering civil society organizations and local 
governments; (2) initiating local spin-offs with shared values after having identified local 
opportunities and interest from local government; (3) supporting the spin-offs in order to guarantee 
a successful scaling based on the original values and approaches.  
Main 
Being part of the so-called third sector, one of the main challenges for social enterprises is to 
enlarge their institutional visibility (Chaves and Monzón 2013). According to Chaves and Monzón 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
241 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
(2013, p. 17) this third sector remains invisible for mainly two reasons. First, the absence of a 
separate category in the national accounts system. Second, the lack of a clear and rigorous 
definition. In this paper, we focus on this challenge by elaborating on one of the elements that are 
seen as being vital for social enterprises, i.e., scalability (André and Pache, 2016; Portales 2019; ; 
Islam, 2020; Shepherd and Patzelt, 2022). If social enterprises succeed in scalability, this might add 
to their visibility.  
Measuring success in social enterprises is different from profit oriented organisations. This does 
not come as a surprise since the aim is not maximising profit, but addressing societal problems. 
Being able to scale societal impact is therefore an important component in the assessment of their 
success (Portales, 2019; Islam, 2020). According to Portales (2019, p. 4), “scalability of social 
enterprises refers to the ability to replicate the business model successfully in other places, to 
continue generating more benefits.” Islam (2020, p. 1), referring to André and Pache (2016) defines 
scaling impact as “the creation of higher social value by serving large numbers of beneficiaries, as 
well as serving them well in relation to specific social problems”. “Spreading excellence within an 
organization as is grows” is how Shepherd and Patzelt (2022, p. 255) define it. These definitions 
show that upscaling contains a quantitative element as well as a qualitative one. The focus, 
however, is most of the time on increasing the numbers and that might be an explanation for the 
unintended negative consequences (Islam, 2020 and 2022). Islam’s (2022) suggestion for future 
research, i.e. how to avoid the potential unintended consequences resulting from scaling strategies, 
is the focus of this research. Scalability is not an easy process because social enterprises often lack 
resources. Moreover, scalability is a controversial concept because it is often related to scaling up 
to reduce costs and increase efficiency. However, the scalability of social enterprises serves another 
goal. Benefits relate to the social impact they can create for economic, social, and environmental 
aspects. The aim is to increase impact or replicate a business model that has been proven successful 
in solving a societal problem. ‘Het Pandschap’ and ‘Renoseec’ respond to the urgent issue of 
sustainable housing. In the paper, the purpose is to focus on the conditions that are helpful in 
guaranteeing a successful scaling of social impact by analysing the specific approach of ‘social 
franchising’ by these two Belgian cases. 
Adequate housing is a universal human right and viewed as one of the most basic human needs 
(United Nations, n.d.; Schumacher 1977). Yet, this article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights is not met, neither in the south nor in the north of the world. In December 2022 more than 
forty Flemish social organizations filed a complaint against the Flemish housing policy with the 
European Committee for Social Rights, under the Dutch name “Woonzaak”. They aimed for a policy 
that guarantees better access to safe and affordable housing for everyone. The universal right to 
housing requires attention. In general, human rights are inextricably linked to the 17 Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) that the 193 member states of the United Nations have put on the 
agenda by 2030. The core ambitions are: ending extreme poverty, inequality, injustice and global 
warming. The SDG ambition in the field of housing is to provide access for everyone to adequate, 
safe and affordable housing with associated basic services by 2030.  
Only improving the entire value chain of the housing sector can offer a way out, provided by societal 
triangulation (Van Tulder and Keen., 2018), i.e. a joint approach by all relevant actors, including 
government, profit-driven companies and social enterprises operating in the market and civil 
society, all pursuing an unambiguous social objective. Some governments take initiatives to meet 
the most urgent needs. For example, several European cities, including Ghent, are committed to 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
242 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
tackling structural homelessness. Flemish initiatives such as interest-free energy loans, Flemish rent 
subsidies, etc. are  good examples that partly meet the current housing shortage. However, these 
numerous top-down initiatives often involve merely incremental social corrections without 
addressing in a systemic way the structural problem, i.e., the lack of affordable housing to all social 
groups, including the people with a very low income (Braudel 1979). Some companies join forces 
with civil society to address this challenge (Bruni and Grévin 2016; Bruni and Uelmen 2006; Schmidt 
and Budinich 2008). They do this for example in collaboration with Social Rental Offices that are 
responsible for the social rental of private homes. A company such as ‘Het Pandschap’ in the regions 
of Ghent, Antwerp and Bruges sets the bar very high for private entrepreneurship because of their 
structurally ingrained social purpose. It also does this by setting up collective neighbourhood 
renovations with the ‘RenoseeC project’. ‘Het Pandschap’ and ‘Renoseec’ are two innovative social 
housing projects in Ghent and will be used as cases to elaborate on a specific concept of social 
franchising. The analysis is based on in depth interviews with relevant stakeholders of these 
organisations: the founders and managers of the organisation, the owners of the houses, the 
government, the tenants and the local community. 
These two cases have been chosen because of their innovative approach of providing affordable 
houses for very low income people. In this approach, two principles are paramount. Firstly, the 
collective interest of entrepreneurship must prevail. The planet, its resources, the air, the soil on 
which we live, are all common goods and must also be managed collectively. Secondly, the social 
purpose must be a structural and statutory part of the DNA of the organization and – in addition to 
the financial robustness of the company – come first (Bruni and Grévin 2016; Bruni and Uelmen 
2006; Linard 2003). Social entrepreneurship does not exclude financial gains. But, profits that are 
made on a basic right such as the right to housing and that partly include government funds, have 
to be paid out to a larger group of stakeholders including residents and the local community.  
Entrepreneurship is understood as a vital aspect of the city as a space where several functions 
(working, living, relaxation) intersect (Tjallingii 1995; Versele 2020). Companies operate at the 
human scale of local communities (Schumacher 1973). Sustainable housing is a dimension of urban 
development that also depends on the collaboration between companies and other local actors 
(CEB 2010). As part of an ecosystem of organisations, ‘RenoseeC’ and ‘Het Pandschap’ were able to 
thoroughly experiment, test and improve diverse approaches that support owners in improving 
their housing conditions, thanks to an extensive collaboration with and support from the Belgian 
City of Ghent and the province of East Flanders. This results in a current set of activities that are 
solution driven, accessible and tailored to individual needs, rather than top-down and ‘one size fits 
all’ approach. An increasing number of requests for the offered services from all over Flanders, 
combined with expected adaptations (and accompanying investments) of policies in the near 
future, makes scaling of activities across the Flemish region necessary. This not only ensures the 
effective use of public resources in helping vulnerable families with their housing situation, it also 
helps the ecosystem ensure that future policies are based on activities that have already proven 
their success in practice.  
The main objective to scale these local activities to the rest of the Flemish region is  to maximize 
the organization’s impact on affordable and qualitative housing. The ambition is to ensure everyone 
in need of support improving their housing conditions. Research mostly focuses on either 
organizational growth strategies or ecosystem growth strategies as social impact scaling strategies 
(Islam, 2022). Renoseec and Het Pandschap combine both. There is not only a focus on geographic 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
243 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
expansion (Giudici et al., 2020), but with the specific model of social franchising, contributions are 
also made towards expanding the ecosystem by training and supporting the individual social 
enterprises. Moreover, the different way of tackling the need for social housing is new in the field 
which has the potential of establishing a new sector.  
The social franchising concept that is suggested, is different from mainstream approaches of 
franchising. The concept is not sold, but shared. Central is the commitment to help the other and 
to be part of it. The success of this scaling is based on connection with the local context; specific 
needs and focus of the local government, network of local contractors, collaboration with other 
local organizations in civil society, … Hence, the aspiration is to socially franchise the activities in an 
open-source way and based on shared values.  Socially engaged technical profiles like in Ghent will 
be supported in setting up their own local spin off. Finally, this should result in a regional wide 
network, increasing the influence on housing policy.  
The analysis of the cases has identified key features of the regional wide network or social 
franchising: (1) setting up regional campaigns through partnering civil society organizations and 
local governments in the 5 Flemish provinces; (2) Initiating local spin offs after having identified 
local opportunities and combined interest from local government; (3) supporting the spin offs in 
order to guarantee a successful scaling based on the original values and approaches.  
Keywords  
Social franchising, scalability, social impact, local ecosystem,  affordable housing 
References   
André, K. and Pache, A. C. (2016). From caring entrepreneur to caring enterprise: addressing the ethical 
challenges of scaling up social enterprises. Journal of Business Ethics, 133 (4), 659-675.  
Braudel, F. (1979) Civilisation Matérielle, Économie et Capitalisme XVe-XVIIIe Siècle. 2: Les Jeux de l’échange. 
Paris: Colin. 
Bruni, L. & Grévin, A. (2016) Economie Silencieuse. Bruyères-le-Châtel: Nouvelle Cité. 
Bruni, L. & Uelmen, A. (2006) ‘Essays: Religious Values and Corporate Decision Making. The Economy of 
Communion Project’. Fordham Journal of Corporate & Financial Law 11(3), 645–680. 
CEB. (2010) Sustainable Housing and Urban Development: Synthesis. Paris: Council of Europe Development 
Bank. 
Chaves, R. & Monzón, J. L. (2013) ‘The Social Economy in the European Union’. , Liège: CIRIEC (Centre 
International de recherches et d’information sur l’économie publique, sociale et coopérative). 
[Accesssed 
7 
February 
2022] 
https://www.eesc.europa.eu/en/documents/social-economy-
european-union#downloads 
Giudici, A., Combs, J. G., Cannatelli, B. L.,  Smith, B. R. (2020). Successful Scaling in Social Franchising: The Case 
of Impact Hub. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 44 (2), 288–314. 
Han, J., and Shah, S. (2020). The Ecosystem of Scaling Social Impact: A New Theoretical Framework and Two 
Case Studies. Journal of Social Entrepreneurship, vol. 11, no. 2, 2020, pp. 215–239. 
Islam, S. M. (2020). Unintended consequences of scaling social impact through ecosystem growth strategy in 
social enterprise and social entrepreneurship. Journal of Business Venturing Insights, 13, e00159. 
Islam, S. M. (2022). Social Impact Scaling Strategies in Social Enterprises: A Systematic Review and Research 
Agenda.” Australian Journal of Management, 47(2), 298–321. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
244 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Linard, K. T. (2003) ‘Economy of Communion. Systemic Factors in the Rise of a New Entrepreneurship’. 
Systems Research and Behavioral Science 20(2), 163–75. 
Portales, L. (2019) Social Innovation and Social Entrepreneurship. Cham, Springer Nature. 
Schmidt, S., & Budinich, V. (2008). ‘Housing the Poor by Engaging the Private and Citizen Sector. Social 
Innovations and “Hybrid Value Chains”’. Global Urban Development Magazine 4(2), 205–28. 
Schumacher, E. F. (1973) Small Is Beautiful: A Study of Economics As If People Mattered. New York, NY, Harper 
and Row. 
Schumacher, E. F. (1977) A Guide for the Perplexed. New York, NY, Harper Perennial. 
Shepherd, D. A, and Patzelt, H. (2022). A Call for Research on the Scaling of Organizations and the Scaling of 
Social Impact. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 46 (2), 255–268. 
Tjallingii, S. P. (1995) Ecopolis. Strategies for Ecologically Sound Urban Development. Leiden, Backhuys 
Publishers. 
Unitated 
Nations 
(n.d.). 
The 
right 
to 
adequate 
housing. 
https://www.ohchr.org/documents/publications/fs21_rev_1_housing_en.pdf 
[[Accesssed 
7 
February 2022] 
van Tulder, R. and Keen, N. (2018). Capturing Collaborative Challenges: Designing Complexity-Sensitive 
Theories of Change for Cross-Sector Partnerships. Jouranl of Business Ethics 150, 315–332. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-018-3857-7 
Versele, A. (2020) ‘Wat We Hier Kunnen Leren van Een Vluchtelingenkamp in Oeganda’. Knack. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
245 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Universities and Social 
Enterpreuners. Where do they meet? 
Bibliometric Analysis 
Evelina Van Mensel1,* Zornitsa Yordanova2, Nikolay A. 
Dentchev3 
1University of World and National Economy; 2University of World and 
National Economy; 3Brussels Free University, University of World and 
National Economy 
*evelina.vanmensel@unwe.bg 
 
Abstract 
The aim of this study is to examine the trends observed in scientific literature regarding the roles 
of universities as actors in ecosystems to support social entrepreneurs. We performed a 
bibliometric analysis of the scientific literature covering 302 Scopus indexed publications which deal 
simultaneously with universities and social entrepreneurship/social entrepreneurs. The results 
indicate where connections are found between the two concepts and allow for the mapping of the 
existing research of the role of the university demonstrated in the scientific literature so far.  
Keywords  
Social entrepreneurs; social entrepreneurship; university; ecosystem for social entrepreneurship; 
bibliometric analysis

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
246 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 1.3 - Natural Ecosystem Services as 
Drivers for Sustainable Business Model 
Development 
Track chairs: Anna Hansson and Niklas Karlsson 
(Halmstad University) 
 
Ecosystem services are critical to the function of life-support systems on earth. Due to 
human activities, the goods and services that ecosystems provide have been significantly 
degraded along with their global financial value. As a result, there is a need to explicitly 
consider how ecosystem services can be part of sustainable value creating business 
activities. By including ecosystem services in business models, businesses and their 
stakeholders can benefit from new innovative business opportunities.  
Thus, this track explores how sustainable business models, business resilience, and 
sustainable growth can be facilitated through preservation, regeneration, and processing 
of services provided from natural ecosystems. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
247 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Business Models Embedding 
Ecosystem Services to tackle Climate 
Change 
 
The case of Digital Climate Solutions 
 
Juan Ramón Candia*, Luisa Huaccho Huatuco, Peter Ball 
University of York Management School, University of York, YO10 5DF, 
UK 
*jcj516@york.ac.uk 
Extended Abstract 
Purpose 
This research explores Business Models for Sustainability (BMfS) developed by emerging 
enterprises that use digital technologies (DT) and ecosystem services4 (ES) as part of their value 
proposition and that were born with the purpose of addressing climate change issues (climate 
native companies).  
One of the first academic articles referring to BMfS was in 2008 by Stubbs (Stubbs, 2008), where a 
sustainable business model was defined as “a model where sustainability concepts shape the 
driving force of the firm and its decision making”.  Under BMfS, sustainability is considered part of 
the business strategy itself, not as add-on (Stubbs, 2008).  According to Dyllic (2016), a truly 
sustainable business reflects on questions that go beyond traditional considerations. In fact, it 
reflects on questions, such as: “How can business contribute with its products and services to 
resolve pressing sustainability issues in their societies?” (p.165). 
In line with this, the rapid development of DT in the last decade has empowered new business 
solutions with the potential to significantly contribute to the challenge of climate change (CC).  
According to Gregori and Holzman (2020), DT contribute to the development of new value 
 
4 According to the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (2005), ecosystem services can be defined as the 
benefits people obtain from ecosystems. These include provisioning services; regulating services; supporting 
services; and cultural services. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
248 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
propositions that combine environmental, social and economic value.  Digitalization is also seen as 
a ‘problem solver’ for CC (Lenz, 2021) and can contribute to the development of smart solutions to 
many environmental problems related to CC in sectors, such as: health, farming, food security, 
manufacturing, among others (Eteris, 2020). 
According to George et al. (2019), entrepreneurs are already employing DT to address key 
sustainability challenges, not only through technology innovations, but also through the 
development of business models (BM) that provide a new purpose to the innovations. They state 
that management scholars are yet to embrace the urgency of CC and sustainable development in 
their work, identifying as one of the main avenues for future research the need to investigate 
innovative BMfS.  In particular, there is a need to understand how ecosystem services can be part 
of the value creation of these BMfS, as stated in the call for this Conference. 
The research questions addressed in this research are: How are new business models for 
sustainability based on Digital Climate Solutions (DCS) supporting and advancing climate change 
actions? and How are natural ecosystem services part of these new business models’ value 
proposition? 
Design/Methodology/Approach 
This empirical research is based on multiple case studies. This method offers the opportunity of a 
holistic view of a process (Gummesson 1991, in Patton and Appelbaum, 2003), and also allows an 
investigation to retain the holistic and meaningful characteristics of real-life events (Ying 1984, in 
Patton and Appelbaum, 2003).  The justification for cases studies also rests on the phenomenon´s 
importance and the lack of visible theory and empirical evidence (phenomenon-driven research 
questions).   
With this aim, semi-structured interviews are primary sources of data. A questionnaire addressing 
aspects of company strategy, KPIs and BM design was developed aimed at CEOs and founders of 
the companies (near 20 questions in total) in an interview lasting 45 minutes conducted via Zoom. 
The type of questions included: market need being addressed, main innovation being proposed, 
value proposition and value capture mechanisms, CC objectives and KPIs, description of the DT and 
NCS components, among others.   
These companies are mainly start-ups, with an average of 10 employees, from the UK and Europe, 
and were selected based on recommendations and referral by related official programs (e.g. Net 
Zero program, EIT Climate-KIC) and other sources (e.g. Tech Nation program, web searches, experts 
on the field). Secondary data was also collected from publicly available reports, websites, 
newspaper, journal articles, and internal company documents.  In addition, a desk-based research 
of companies in the UK Tech Nation Program was conducted together with the review of other 
outstanding DT companies of interest, to understand and compare their value proposition in 
relation to digital technologies and ecosystem services.  
The framework for analysis is based on the systems dynamic’s perspective, particularly looking at 
causal-loop diagram, as presented in Casadesus-Masanell and Ricart (2010). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
249 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Findings 
As this is an on-going investigation, the following are preliminary findings mainly based on a sub-
set (desk analysis). Thus, two types of value propositions were found: mitigation and adaptation 
value propositions.  From the group of 60 climate tech companies that are part of the UK Tech 
Nation Program, around 90% of the companies focused on mitigation value propositions. 
Mitigation value propositions include offerings related to energy efficiency, new materials, waste 
management, electric transport, carbon sequestration, among others.  In particular, examples 
related to ecosystem services include the restoration of habitats, insect’s bioconversion 
capabilities, and the provision of information to invest in sound carbon offset projects, with the 
visualisation of the impact of the investments, and monitoring over time.  Adaptation value 
propositions include services to identify, prevent, anticipate, and mitigate the impacts of CC on 
companies’ assets. 
75% of these companies are CC natives (i.e. companies that were created with the aim of tackling 
CC), 70% of them have DT as part of their value proposition, while 5% of these companies have ES 
as part of their value proposition.  In terms of targeted sectors, the most commonly mentioned are: 
transport, energy, construction and food, although very often these companies declare to be 
agnostic to sectors (implying that their value proposition is wide reaching). 
DT embedded into the BM that were studied include: Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning 
(ML), Internet of Things (IoT), blockchain, satellite images, among others, and their business models 
(BM) usually consider a combination of these technologies.  Some of these companies improve the 
CC decision-making process for their clients (e.g. deciding on a portfolio for carbon offsetting), 
others deal with CC risks (insurance, smart contracts, climate intelligence) while others attempt to 
directly contribute to carbon sequestration through the restoration of ecosystems or the promotion 
of tree planting. Figure 1 is a preliminary and simplified model of the value creation of a DT climate 
native company.  It is a search engine which main aim is to contribute to address CC by using the 
natural capacity of trees to capture CO2 from the atmosphere.  
 
Natural ecosystem service 
embedded into its BM: 
Carbon Sequestration
BMfS
COMPANY 1
Donates 80% of profits 
for tree planting
Work with local 
communities
Allocate 20% of profits to 
decrease Carbon 
footprint
A a non-for-profit 
business
Certified as B-Corp
Focus on vulnerable 
biodiversity hotspots
Provides internet 
search services
Sell products on-line 
for ecosystem 
restoration
Value for the Planet:
§ 136 millions of trees planted
§ 30 countries around the world
§ 13 millions Euros invested
§ 50 million trees means 2.5 
million tonnes of CO2 removed 
from the atmosphere
Other Benefits:
§ Increase food security
§ Protect water sources
§ Prevent erosion
§ Create wildlife habitats
§ Fight desertification
§ Empower women
§ BD protection
Contribution to tackling 
climate change:

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
250 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 1: Simplified business model of a climate native company that considers natural ecosystem 
services in their value proposition. 
The barriers to further DCS include: the need to build credibility and climate literacy, the ability to 
collect the best possible data, the uncertainty inherent to this complex challenge, plus aspects of 
data protection, and confidentiality. 
Relevance/Contribution 
This research contributes to the debate at the intersection between Climate Change and Digital 
Technologies (the Sustainability and Digital Imperatives) from a system dynamic perspective.  It 
provides an insight on how DT are enabling new value propositions that incorporate ecosystem 
services as part of innovative business models for sustainability.  Figure 2 shows a general 
preliminary framework to understand this dynamic. 
 
Figure 2: Generic Logic of BMFS: the case of DCS and ES. 
The theoretical framework emerging from case-based research can advance and stimulate new 
approaches to inspire entrepreneurs, businesses, and institutions to make further progress in DCS 
and ecosystem services.   It can also support decision makers, managers and entrepreneurs, in 
understanding how the business model and its value proposition can benefit the natural 
environment.  
In particular, this is a contribution to Theme 1 of this conference (“Exploring the system level”), 
specifically to the question:  How can we design new business models to support value capture from 
ecosystem services?  
 
Generic Logic of Business Model for Sustainability: the case of DCS and ES 
Adapted from Abdelkafi and Täuscher 2016 
Env_Value_Proposi on
Value_Crea on_Capacity
Customer_Value_Proposi on
Value_Capture
Contribution to CC mitigation by 
supporting carbon sequestration 
projects and projects preventing 
emissions.
Examples:
§ Understand client´s carbon emissions of 
every transac on they make, giving an 
accurate, and personalised carbon 
footprint (track, reduce, offset approach).
§ Make every product and service climate 
posi ve
§ Diversity of projects for offse
ng carbon 
footprint
CONTRIBUTING TO ECOLOGICAL 
CAPITAL:
§ The environmental value proposi on 
is realised by, for example, offse
ng 
client´s carbon footprint with a 
verified projects that remove or 
prevent carbon emissions.
§ These may include: reforesta on, 
genera ng renewable energy, forest 
conserva on, etc.
e.g. the company captures value by 
charging a fee on every project.
MEASURING IMPACTS:
§ Expected posi ve contribu on to 
tackling climate change.
§ Expected other posi ve 
contribu on to the environment 
(water, biodiversity, others).

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
251 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Preliminary Conclusions 
Under the systems dynamic’s perspective, this research is showing the interaction between 
innovative BMfS, their value creation and value proposition, the role of ES within this BM, and the 
expected benefits for the environment (particularly regarding CC), thus contributing to the research 
gap initially stated.   
In addition, it seems clear that emerging enterprises face numerous challenges and opportunities 
in relation to this ambition to contribute to tackle CC though DCS and innovative BM.  
Limitations of these findings include the fact that this research is still ongoing, so it is expected that 
new information and data will become available.  In addition, the amount of companies to be 
interviewed (between 10 and 20) may be considered to some extend limited.     
Finally, it is considered that there is a great potential to conduct further research on the interaction 
between these concepts in order to improve the understanding of the system and contribute to 
both management theory and practical recommendations for policy makers, managers and 
entrepreneurs. 
Keywords:  
Business Models for Sustainability, Climate Change, Digital Technology Solutions, Ecosystem 
Services, Case studies, System Dynamics. 
References 
Abdelkafi, N. and Täuscher, K. (2016).  “Business Models for Sustainability From a System Dynamics 
Perspective”, Organization & Environment, 29(1) 74–96. 
Averchenkova A., Crick, F.; Kocornik-Mina, A., Leck H. and Surminski S. (2015).  “Multinational corporations 
and climate adaptation – Are we asking the right questions? A review of current knowledge and a 
new research perspective”.  Working paper.  Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and 
the Environment, London School of Economics and Political Science. 
Casadesus-Masanell, R. and Ricart, J.E. (2010).  From Strategy to Business Models and onto Tactics.  Long 
Range Planning, 43: 195-215.  
Dyllic, T. and Muff, K. (2016). “Clarifying the Meaning of Sustainable Business: Introducing a Typology From 
Business-as-Usual to True Business Sustainability”, Organization & Environment, 29(2): 156–174. 
Eteris, E. (2020). “Sustainability and Digitalization: Double Strategy Guidelines in National Development”, 
European Integration Institute, Denmark.  
George, G., Merril, R., and Schillebeeckx, S. (2019) “Digital Sustainability and Entrepreneurship: How Digital 
Innovations Are Helping Tackle Climate Change and Sustainable Development”,  Entrepreneurship 
Theory and Practice, 1–28. 
Gregori, P. and P. Holzmann (2020). “Digital sustainable entrepreneurship: A business model perspective on 
embedding digital technologies for social and environmental value creation”,  Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 272, 122817.  
Lenz, S. (2021).  “Is digitalization a problem solver or a fire accelerator? Situating digital technologies in 
sustainability discourses”, Social Science Information, 1–21. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
252 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (2005).  “Ecosystems and Human Well-Being: Wetlands and Water 
Synthesis”.  World Resources Institute, Washington, DC. 
Patton, E. and S. Appelbaum (2003) “The Case for Case Studies in Management Research”.   Management 
Research News.  26 (5). 
Stubbs, W. and Cocklin, C. (2008). “Conceptualizing a Sustainability Business Model”,  Organization & 
Environment, 21 (2): 103-127. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
253 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Drivers and Barriers for Initiating the 
Business Model Innovation Process 
for Sustainability Based on 
Ecosystem Services  
 
Anna M. Hansson1,* Niklas P.E. Karlsson1  
1Department of Environment and Biosciences,  
School of Business, Innovation and Sustainability,  
Halmstad University, Halmstad, Sweden  
*anna.hansson@hh.se 
Extended abstract 
The agricultural sector has a critical role in creating social and environmental value from natural 
resources in addition to its traditional role of creating economic value through food production. In 
fulfilling this dual role, the agricultural sector faces what is often viewed as competing pressures: 
to operate financially profitable businesses and to create, maintain and benefit from ecosystem 
services (ES) in their operations. ES, such as food production, climate regulation, and water 
management, are benefits ecological systems provide humans and that are critical to the function 
of life-support systems on earth (Costanza et al., 1997).   
Previous research shows that agricultural businesses associate maintenance of sustainability-
oriented ES (other than those connected to food production such as climate regulation and water 
purification) with increased costs connected to their preservation, and uncertain incomes due to 
their intangibility and long-termism (Bocken and Geradts, 2019; Hansson et al., 2012; Smith and 
Sullivan, 2014). As a result, drivers, barriers, and changes in the external environment greatly shape 
business strategies and decisions on activities for creating, delivering, and capturing sustainable 
value (Kaplan, 2011; Teece, 2010; Yang et al., 2019). Moreover, the understanding of such 
moderating factors is especially important for realising sustainable business activities that require 
radical changes in current business models (BMs) (Lütz and Bastian, 2002; Bocken and Geradts, 
2019). A BM describes the business logic of a company i.e., how economic value is created, 
captured, and delivered (e.g., Teece, 2010; Zott and Amit, 2007). It can be used to describe and 
implement a company’s current and future plans for financial success through producing, 
marketing, and selling sustainable goods and services (Karlsson et al., 2018). 
Sustainability-oriented BM changes can be realized via a business model innovation process for 
sustainability (BMIpfS) that builds on a systematic and holistic mindset of the involved actors 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
254 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
(Stubbs and Cocklin, 2008; Zott and Amit, 2010). The BMIpfS requires businesses to make strategic 
decisions related to market, customers, and value propositions for optimizing social and 
environmental value creation (Bocken et al., 2014; Schaltegger et al., 2016). The BMIpfS can thus 
be crucial for driving the development of sustainable BMs (Karlsson et al., 2018) for agricultural 
businesses in which the creation and processing of ES are important elements. Through BM changes 
supported by the BMIpfS, inclusion of ES previously not captured by BMs could become a 
sustainable value-creating activity for agricultural businesses and their stakeholders (e.g., 
customers, suppliers, and retailers) by creating financial value from ES while simultaneously 
preserving the ecosystems.  
Thus, the aim of this study is to further the understanding of drivers and barriers, as perceived by 
agricultural business managers, for initiating the BMIpfS based on the inclusion of sustainability-
oriented ES. The study uses qualitative thematic content analysis (Graneheim and Lundman, 2004) 
to analyse the data of perceived drivers and barriers to the initiation of the BMIpfS as they are 
revealed in semi-structured interviews by ten agricultural business managers operating farms in 
southern 
Sweden.  
The results show that business managers’ main business concerns were based on financial 
considerations that acted as either drivers or barriers for the initiation of the BMIpfS depending on 
whether the managers viewed the inclusion of sustainability-oriented ES as business risks or as 
opportunities. The drivers reported by the managers were based on the core idea of realising and 
taking advantage of business opportunities, both on a short-term and a long-term basis, in 
connection to the uncaptured value inclusion of sustainability-oriented ES in BMs can offer. The 
managers were also driven by their belief that sustainable value creation is a business responsibility 
in relation to stakeholders and the global population in which challenges to food supplies play an 
important part. The drivers included the idea that a breaking point may arrive when profit cannot 
be sustained and a new balance between shareholder and stakeholder value is needed. To 
proactively avoid such breaking points, they viewed value creation and capture of sustainability-
oriented ES as an important part of sustainable farming systems. The barriers identified revealed 
that the business managers’ main concern was the financial risks associated with the sometimes 
substantial changes to current farming systems required to include sustainability-oriented ES. They 
were concerned with how these changes would affect their long-term profit, especially the impact 
on their revenue streams. This was emphasised by their low tolerance for uncertainty when making 
decisions about business changes, especially because they thought the proposed changes were 
antithetical to their traditional value-creating activities and their self-perception of what it means 
to be a food producer. Unclear benefits from meeting sustainability targets added to their doubts.  
On a general level, this study contributes to the business model innovation literature by identifying 
drivers and barriers that moderates the initiation of the BMIpfS. It complements previous research 
regarding the connection between individual, sustainability concerns and organisational values in 
a BM change process (Bansal 2003; Rauter et al., 2017). Through the contributions of this study, the 
needs connected to sustainable BM change amongst agricultural business managers can be better 
understood and met as the managers acknowledge the importance of long-term, sustainable social 
and environmental value creation, while addressing their grave doubts about the profitability of 
activities associated with the initiation of the BMIpfS based on to the inclusion of sustainability-
oriented ES. The managers would benefit from taking a more proactive, long-term approach to 
business model changes for sustainability and from acquiring more knowledge about market 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
255 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
demand for sustainability-oriented ES. Support is needed by one or several actors that can facilitate 
(clarify, motivate, and practically assist) change and improve the turning of profits based on 
sustainable value creation (Kundrupi et al., 2021). The results could also be important for policy 
makers in the development of agricultural support systems and programmes. These, in turn, can 
benefit the implementation of sustainability-oriented BM changes that can play a crucial role in 
preservation of natural ecosystems.  
Keywords  
Business model innovation process, sustainable value creation, ecosystem services, agriculture  
References  
Bansal, P., 2003. From issues to actions: The importance of individual concerns and organisational values in 
responding to natural environmental issues. Organ. Sci. 14, 510-527. 
Bocken, N. M., Geradts, T. H., 2019. Barriers and drivers to sustainable business model innovation: 
Organization design and dynamic capabilities. Long Range Plann. 101950. 
Bocken, N.M.P., Short, S.W., Rana, P., Evans, S., 2014. A literature and practice review to develop sustainable 
business model archetypes. J. Clean. Prod. 65, 42-56. 
Costanza, R., d’Arge, R., de Groot, R., Farber, S., Grasso, M., Hannon, B., Limburg, K., Naeem, S., O’Neill, R.V., 
Paruele, J., Raskin, R.G., Sutton, P., Van den Belt, M., 1997. The value of the world’s ecosystem 
services and natural capital. Nature 387, 253-260. 
Graneheim, U.H., Lundman, B., 2004. Qualitative content analysis in nursing research: Concepts, procedures 
and measures to achieve trustworthiness. Nurse Educ. Today 24, 105-112. 
Hansson, A., Pedersen, E., Weisner, S.E.B., 2012. Landowners' incentives for constructing wetlands in an 
agricultural area in south Sweden. J. Environ. Manage. 113, 271-278. 
Kaplan, S., 2011. Research in cognition and strategy: Reflections on two decades of progress and a look to the 
future. J. Manag. Stud. 48 (3), 665–695. 
Karlsson, N.P.E., Hoveskog, M., Halila, F., Mattsson, M., 2018. Early phases of the business model innovation 
process for sustainability: Addressing the status quo of a Swedish biogas-producing farm 
cooperative. J. Clean. Prod. 172, 2759-2772. 
Kundurpi, A., Westman, L., Luederitz, C., Burch, S., & Mercado, A. (2021). Navigating between adaptation and 
transformation: How intermediaries support businesses in sustainability transitions. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 283, 125366. 
Lütz, M., Bastian, O., 2002. Implementation of landscape planning and nature conservation in the agricultural 
landscape—a case study from Saxony. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 92 (2-3), 159-170.  
Rauter, R., Jonker, J., Baumgartner, R.J., 2017. Going one's own way: Drivers in developing business models 
for sustainability. J. Clean. Prod. 140, 144-154. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G., Lüdeke-Freund, F., 2016. Business models for sustainability: Origins, present 
research, and future avenues. Organ. Environ. 29, 3-10. 
Smith, H.F., Sullivan, C.A., 2014. Ecosystem services within agricultural landscapes – Farmers' perceptions. 
Ecol. Econ. 98, 72-80. 
Stubbs, W., Cocklin, C., 2008. Conceptualizing a "sustainability business model". Org. Environ. 21 (2), 103-127. 
Teece, D.J., 2010. Business models, business strategy and innovation, Long Range Plann. 43, 172-194. 
Yang, D., Wang, A. X., Zhou, K. Z., Jiang, W., 2019. Environmental strategy, institutional force, and innovation 
capability: A managerial cognition perspective. J. Bus. Ethics 159 (4), 1147-1161. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
256 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Zott, C., Amit, R., 2007. Business model design and the performance of entrepreneurial firms. Organ. Sci. 18 
(2), 181-199. 
Zott, C., Amit, R., 2010. Business model design: An activity system perspective. Long Range Plann. 43, 216–
226. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
257 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
How Smart Service Portals Trigger 
Social Action to Reduce Energy 
Consumption  
Applying Choice Architecture to Sustainable Business 
Model Innovation 
Andreas Hinz1,*, Cécile Minder1, Melissa Schnider1,  
Volker Schulte1  
1Institute of Management, School of Business, University of Applied 
Sciences and Arts Northwestern Switzerland FHNW 
*andreas.hinz@fhnw.ch 
Extended abstract 
Introduction 
At the example of municipalities seeking to reduce citizens’ energy consumption with digital tools, 
this research focuses on Sustainable Business Models (SBM) innovation (Dentchev et al., 2018; 
Evans et al., 2017; Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund & Hansen, 2016). A collaboration between 
Fit4Digital and FHNW has been the basis for this research, amongst other streams. Fit4Digital is a 
program of the Swiss Canton of Aargau to advance digitalization of municipal services with Smart 
Service Portals (SSPs) aiming to shape future engagement between public bodies and citizens. SSPs 
are digital interfaces of municipalities where citizens can access, manage, submit and retrieve 
various official documents (e.g., birth certificates, tax records) and pursue administrative tasks (e.g., 
registration for geriatric care or application for a building permit) anytime from anywhere 
(Fit4Digital, 2022). 
The potential of SSPs goes far beyond the introduction of online municipal services. As digital 
interfaces, they are highly effective to engage citizens in what Zott & Amit (2010) refer to as social 
action. This work examines how SSPs can be innovated to motivate social action among citizens to 
reduce energy consumption at home (Lindenberg & Papies, 2019; Lehner, Mont and Heiskanen, 
2016; Asensio & Delmas, 2015; Zott & Amit, 2010). To gain insights into this matter, essential 
aspects of SSPs can be examined in the context of business models (Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010). 
More specifically, sustainable business models (SBMs) focus on how different business model 
elements can be adjusted and innovated to account for sustainability issues (Dentchev et al., 2018, 
Evans et al., 2017). When innovating business models of SSPs to motivate citizens to reduce energy 
consumption at home, two elements appear particularly relevant. Following Osterwalder & Pigneur 
(2010), these are channels to customers (i.e., citizens) and the relationships with them. As desired 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
258 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
by public policymakers, choice architecture can drive innovation of these two SBM elements by 
using powerful triggers on citizens to reduce energy consumption at home (Johnson et al., 2012; 
Lindenberg & Papies, 2019; Lehner, Mont and Heiskanen, 2016). Derived from that, the guiding 
question in this research is how choice architecture can be applied on SSPs to better motivate 
citizens to save energy at home. 
Following a thorough review of literature and case studies, semi-structured interviews were 
conducted with experts in the field. Focusing on using choice architecture tools to innovate the two 
abovementioned SBM elements, recommendations for campaigns on SSPs are discussed. 
Literature 
Choice architecture suggests that decision-makers often choose depending on how choice options 
are presented and in which context (Johnson et al., 2012; Thaler & Sunstein, 2008; Thaler, Sunstein 
& Balz, 2013). Based on dual process theory, two cognitive systems, namely intuition (automatic 
and rapid instincts) and reasoning (reflective and deliberate thinking) are engaged (Grayot, 2020; 
Thaler & Sunstein, 2008; Thaler, Sunstein & Balz, 2013). 
NUDGES and MINDSPACE are useful tools to apply choice architecture systematically and have been 
discussed in the academic literature (Dolan et al., 2012; Thaler & Sunstein, 2008). Given that they 
trigger human intuition as well as reasoning for well-balanced decision-making, they are useful 
practical tools when policymakers intend to steer decision-makers in a certain direction (Dolan et 
al., 2012; Thaler & Sunstein, 2008). This is particularly relevant for topics like sustainability 
(Lindenberg & Papies, 2019; Lehner, Mont and Heiskanen, 2016; Asensio & Delmas, 2015). As 
shown in Table 1, NUDGES and MINDSPACE are acronyms for influencing factors that trigger human 
behavior (Dolan et al., 2010; Dolan, et al., 2012; Thaler & Sunstein, 2008).  
 
Table 1: NUDGES/MINDSPACE Factors  
These factors steer outcomes of individual and collective decision-making (Hausmann & Welch, 
2010; Johnson et al., 2012; Lehner, Mont & Heiskanen, 2016) and support sustainability 
considerations in various settings (Lindenberg & Papies, 2019). 
Methodology  
Semi-structured expert interviews were conducted with seven management-level teams of five 
governmental organizations and one association and public think tank each, as listed in Table 2. 
Sample organizations were chosen because they are not privately owned and not-for-profit 
organizations that seek to support sustainability through social action and create benefits for 
society. Further, the sample was selected to cover a broad array of different perspectives on 
sustainability and energy consumption. Other selection criteria included availability of expert 
knowledge on sustainability and commitment to use digital information to trigger citizens to save 
energy at home.  
Given the Fit4Digital program and the intention of policymakers to establish SSPs across 
Switzerland, 13 local organizations were contacted of which five agreed to an interview. To 
NUDGES 
“INcentives”, Understand Mappings, Defaults, Give Feedback, Expect Error, Structure 
Complex Choices 
MINDSPACE 
Messenger, Incentives, Norms, Defaults, Salience, Priming, Affect, Commitment, Ego 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
259 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
complement the picture with insights from other European and Nordic countries, which are 
regarded as leaders of sustainability roadmaps (Henriksson & Weidman, 2020), seven organizations 
in Germany, Holland, Denmark and Finland were contacted, of which two based in Finland agreed 
to be interviewed. Regarding data analysis, interviews were recorded and transcribed using the 
clean verbatim method (Braun & Clarke, 2013; Mayring, 2014).  
 
Table 2: Classifications of Interviewee Teams  
Discussion and Recommendations 
Digital campaigns to motivate citizens to reduce energy consumption at home were identified in 
Switzerland and beyond with a focus on 42 successful cases: smart energy metering, CO2-footprint 
calculators, interactive web portals, energy challenges and gamification (Brandon et al., 2019; Chui, 
Lytras & Visvizi, 2018; Darby, 2010; Schleich et al., 2011). Cases were checked for most common 
NUDGES/MINDSPACE factors: incentives, salience, understand mappings and structure complex 
choices.  
Focusing on choice architecture tools to innovate channels to customers (i.e., citizens) and the 
relationships with them, recommendations to trigger social action via SSPs to reduce energy 
consumption at home are discussed.  
Use multiple NUDGES/MINDSPACE factors: In line with what Osman, Schwartz & Wodak (2021) and 
Torma, Aschemann‐Witzel & Thøgersen (2018) suggest, interviewees apply different factors of 
choice architecture simultaneously and emphasize that combined factors trigger energy savings 
more effectively than single factors. They observe that triggers can cause different individual 
responses and design their campaigns accordingly to capture that:  
Provide different choice options in a structured and distinguishable manner to facilitate decision-
making like “option 1/2/3 requires A/B/C for impact X/Y/Z” (structure complex choices following 
Thaler & Sunstein, 2008) 
State comprehensive scientific facts like “we can all reduce climatic impact by doing X/Y/Z” 
(understanding mappings following Thaler & Sunstein, 2008) 
Provoke attention with memorable images or distinctive colors (salience following Thaler & 
Sunstein, 2008) 
Trigger intuition and reflection simultaneously: Going beyond the simple number of triggers, this is 
concerned with dual process theory. As noted by Grayot (2020) and Thaler, Sunstein & Balz (2013), 
responses become more effective when intuitive and reflective reactions are jointly triggered. 
Numerous interviewees corroborate this by saying that environmental campaigns need to “hit the 
right buttons” among differently motivated citizens. Interviewees state that most incentives are 
geared towards financial reward (“what is the financial benefit?”) as a common initial reaction. 
Type of Organization  
Area of Expertise 
Governmental Department  
Sustainability / Energy Strategy  
Ministerial Unit 
Sustainability / Energy 
Ministerial Unit 
Economics / Sustainability 
Regional Governmental Department  
Energy Efficiency 
Energy and Sustainability Think Tank 
Energy Efficiency 
Energy Association  
Energy Management Strategy 
Public Transport Provider 
Energy Efficiency 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
260 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
However, if that is unavailable, other approaches with “the right incentives for the right people” 
are needed (Thaler & Sunstein, 2008). This suggests that other potential benefits (“what else can I 
get out of it?”) need to trigger reflective reactions causing social action. Interviewees suggest use 
these examples: 
Appeal to our ego: publicly awarding “energy champions” through energy competitions 
Calling on our consciousness: providing personal versus community-wide CO2-emission data with 
emissions calculators  
Waking our playful side: introducing gamification of energy saving challenges to collect bonus 
points 
Understand cause-and-effect of incentives: Incentives influence decisions-making (Dolan et al., 
2010; Thaler & Sunstein, 2008) and steer energy consumption behaviors (Omar & Delmas, 2015). 
However, interviewees state that incentives are quite generic and overlap with other NUDGES/ 
MINDSPACE factors: 
Commitment: “what makes me do that?” 
Ego: “can I improve my (self-)image?” 
Norms: “why do I follow them?” 
This obscures cause-and-effect relationships, makes impact assessment of energy saving campaigns 
harder and undermines the recommendation of using multiple triggers. Indeed, this suggests that 
different triggers should be launched sequentially rather than all at once. In support of 
understanding cause-and-effect, Deterding (2019) proposes experimentation with choice 
architecture. This can take the form of measuring the impact on energy consumption of one trigger 
before launching the next. At the example of energy consumption applications, experiments could 
sequentially increase the power of their triggers and measure impact at each stage: begin with 
display of raw data of household consumption, then show appealing charts of CO2-emissions saved, 
add costs saved to the chart and finally provide comparative charts of households versus 
neighborhood. 
Conclusion 
With SBM innovation in mind, this research focuses on how choice architecture tools like 
NUDGES/MINDSPACE can be applied on SSPs to better motivate citizens to reduce energy 
consumption at home. This is particularly relevant for two SBM elements, namely channels to 
customers (i.e., citizens) and the relationships with them, where NUDGES/MINDSPACE factors can 
be used to motivate desired actions among citizens. Underlying mechanisms which trigger social 
action to reducing energy consumption at home are examined. 
One limitation is that impact measurement of choice architecture applications is not examined. 
Given the digital nature of SSPs, this represents an interesting direction for further research. 
Another limitation is the focus on relationships with and channels to target audiences. This 
limitation stems from choice architecture and its emphasis on triggering desired behaviors (by using 
channels to citizens and relationships with them). Further research can be done into other elements 
of SBMs.  
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
261 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Keywords  
Smart Service Portals, choice architecture, social action, energy consumption, sustainable business 
model innovation. 
References  
Asensio, O.I. and Delmas, M.A. (2015) Nonprice incentives and energy conservation. Proceedings of the 
National Academy of Sciences, 112(6), pp.E510-E515. 
Brandon, A., List, J.A., Metcalfe, R.D., Price, M.K. and Rundhammer, F. (2019) Testing for crowd out in social 
nudges: Evidence from a natural field experiment in the market for electricity. Proceedings of the 
National Academy of Sciences, 116(12), pp.5293-5298. 
Braun, V. and Clarke, V. (2013) Successful qualitative research: A practical guide for beginners. sage. 
Chui, K.T., Lytras, M.D. and Visvizi, A. (2018) Energy sustainability in smart cities: Artificial intelligence, smart 
monitoring, and optimization of energy consumption. Energies, 11(11), p.2869. 
Darby, S. (2010) Smart metering: what potential for householder engagement?. Building research & 
information, 38(5), pp.442-457. 
Dentchev, N., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, R., Nyberg, T., Tang, X., van 
Hoof, B. and Jonker, J. (2018) Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field 
of research and a future research agenda. Journal of cleaner production, 194, pp.695-703. 
Deterding, S. (2019) Gamification in management: Between choice architecture and humanistic design. 
Journal of Management Inquiry, 28(2), pp.131-136. 
Dolan, P., Hallsworth, M., Halpern, D., King, D., Metcalfe, R. and Vlaev, I. (2012) Influencing behaviour: The 
mindspace way. Journal of economic psychology, 33(1), pp.264-277. 
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Van Fossen, K., Yang, M., Silva, E.A. and Barlow, C.Y. (2017) Business 
model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for creation of sustainable 
business models. Business Strategy and the Environment, 26(5), pp.597-608.  
Fit4Digital. (2022) Smart Service Portals. Available from: https://www.f4d.ch/ [Accessed 8th April 2022].  
Grayot, J.D. (2020) Dual process theories in behavioral economics and neuroeconomics: a critical review. 
Review of Philosophy and Psychology, 11(1), pp.105-136. 
Henriksson, H. and Weidman Grunewald, E. (2020) The Northern Lights Shine Bright. In Sustainability 
Leadership (pp. 11-29). Palgrave Macmillan, Cham. 
Johnson, E.J., Shu, S.B., Dellaert, B.G., Fox, C., Goldstein, D.G., Häubl, G., Larrick, R.P., Payne, J.W., Peters, E., 
Schkade, D. and Wansink, B. (2012) Beyond nudges: Tools of a choice architecture. Marketing 
Letters, 23(2), pp.487-504. 
Lehner, M., Mont, O. and Heiskanen, E. (2016) Nudging–A promising tool for sustainable consumption 
behaviour?. Journal of Cleaner Production, 134, pp.166-177. 
Lindenberg, S. and Papies, E.K. (2019) Two kinds of nudging and the power of cues: Shifting salience of 
alternatives and shifting salience of goals. International Review of Environmental and Resource 
Economics, 13(3-4), pp.229-263. 
Mayring, P. (2014) Qualitative content analysis: theoretical foundation, basic procedures and software 
solution. 
Osman, M., Schwartz, P. and Wodak, S. (2021) Sustainable consumption: what works best, carbon taxes, 
subsidies and/or nudges?. Basic and Applied Social Psychology, 43(3), pp.169-194. 
Osterwalder, A. and Pigneur, Y. (2010) Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game changers, 
and challengers (Vol. 1). John Wiley & Sons. 
Panzone, L.A., Ulph, A., Hilton, D., Gortemaker, I. and Tajudeen, I.A. (2021) Sustainable by Design: Choice 
Architecture and the Carbon Footprint of Grocery Shopping. Journal of Public Policy & Marketing, 
40(4), pp.463-486. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
262 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Hansen, E.G. (2016) Business models for sustainability: A co-
evolutionary analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, innovation, and transformation. Organization 
& Environment, 29(3), pp.264-289. 
Schleich, J., Klobasa, M., Brunner, M., Gölz, S. and Götz, K. (2011) Smart metering in Germany and Austria: 
Results of providing feedback information in a field trial (No. S6/2011). Working paper sustainability 
and innovation. 
Thaler, R. H., Sunstein, C. R., and Balz, J. P. (2013) Choice architecture. In E. Shafir (Ed.), The behavioral 
foundations of public policy (pp. 428-439). Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. 
Thaler, R.H. and Sunstein, C.R. (2008) Nudge: improving decisions about health. Wealth, and Happiness, 6, 
pp.14-38. 
Torma, G., Aschemann‐Witzel, J. and Thøgersen, J. (2018) I nudge myself: exploring ‘self‐nudging’strategies 
to drive sustainable consumption behaviour. International journal of consumer studies, 42(1), 
pp.141-154. 
Zott, C. and Amit, R. (2010) Business model design: An activity system perspective. Long range planning, 43(2-
3), pp.216-226. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
263 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Approaches for Inclusion of Nature 
and Cultural Heritage Assets in 
Business Models for Sustainability 
 
An investigation of tourism enterprises in Protected 
Areas  
Hellen L. Atieno Dawo1,* and Dr. Thomas B. Long1 
1Campus 
Fryslân – 
Centre for 
Sustainable Entrepreneurship 
Rijksuniversiteit Groningen 
*h.l.a.dawo@rug.nl 
 
Abstract 
Protected areas are sources of natural resources such as unique flora and fauna, and cultural 
resources such as historic buildings and practices. In order to foster conservation and sustainable 
development consecutively, novelty is required. Sustainable entrepreneurship presents a viable 
means by which to achieve social, economic and ecological benefits for protected areas. This study 
investigates implementation of sustainable entrepreneurship through the lens of business models 
for sustainability. Employing a multiple case study approach, we explored examples of 
implemented sustainable business models in a trans-national protected area. This was to determine 
how they are able to incorporate nature and cultural heritage assets into their enterprises. Our 
study contributes to sustainable business model literature by delineating processes applied by small 
and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), in a predominantly service oriented industry (tourism). 
Further, it illustrates how business model for sustainability serve as a mediator between nature and 
cultural heritage resources, and implementation of sustainable entrepreneurship.  
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
264 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 1.4 - Business Models for a Circular 
Economy 
Track chairs: Niels Faber (University of Groningen), 
Jan Jonker (Radboud University Nijmegen), Abhishek 
Agarwal (Edinburgh Napier University) 
 
The Circular Economy (CE) is one of the promising perspectives that might offer innovative 
and radical solutions at system level to tackle wicked and pressing problems associated 
with our current, linear economy and society that formed around this. Among others, these 
problems are climate change, resource shortages, and social exclusion. The linear take-
make-waste economy has shown itself to be inadequate to address increasingly complex 
societal challenges, and instead resulting in excessive waste, pollution, and extreme forms 
of social exclusion. Radical change is needed. This calls for a reconceptualization of notions 
such as value preservation, restoration, and revitalization of raw materials, and natural, 
biological, and social systems, as the foundation for a new generation of business models. 
A new generation that is based on organising closed and extended loops, driven by 
principles such as design for circularity, decomposability, minimum and extended use of 
resources and strategies to optimize the use of functionality. We explicitly add to this 
exclusive material-oriented view the need to incorporate social inclusiveness. Shaping a 
circular economy is not just an adjustment of the current economic fabric by using less and 
better commodities, but entails a large-scale overhaul of both economy and society. The 
transition to a circular economy requires rethinking of supply chains into value cycles, 
forming the building blocks of a system transition.  
We will focus this track on large-scale, regional cases in which the principles of the circular 
economy become manifest in business models. All domains are welcome, e.g., energy, 
waste collection and handling, mobility, et cetera. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
265 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Circular Moonshot: Understanding 
field logic shifts and the influence of 
business models for sustainability on 
field change  
 
Lori DiVito1,* Erin Leitheiser2, Charlotte Piller3  
1Amsterdam School of International Business; 2Copenhagen Business 
School; 3Venture Building, Bridgemakers GmbH 
*l.e.d.divito@hva.nl  
Abstract 
We aim to understand the interaction between shifting organizational field logics and field actors’ 
responses to reconcile logic plurality and maintain legitimacy through business model innovation. 
Drawing on a multimethod, longitudinal field study in the fashion industry, we traced how de novo 
and incumbent firms integrate circular logics in business models (for sustainability) and uncover 
how productive tensions in field logics lead to experimental spaces for business model innovation. 
Our findings showed a shift in the discourse on circular logic that diverted attention and resources 
from materials innovation (e.g. recycling) to business model innovation (e.g. circular business 
models). By juxtaposing the degree of field logic tension and the degree of business model 
innovation, we derive four types of business model hybridization responses that actors engaged in 
to maintain legitimacy – constrained, limited, integrated, and expanded. Our study generates new 
insights on business models for sustainability as vehicles for organizational field change. We make 
novel contributions to the literatures on organizational fields, business models for sustainability 
and business model innovation. 
 
 
Keywords  
Business models for sustainability; organizational field logics; productive tensions; hybrid 
organizations; circular fashion  
 
To achieve its “moonshot ambition” of cutting environmental impact by half, while doubling its 
business, we “will need to forget the linear and move to a circular model.”  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
266 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Hannah Jones, Chief Sustainability Office, Nike, quoted in GreenBiz, September 20, 2016 
Introduction 
Business modeling has become ubiquitous with business strategizing, representing a designed 
architecture that informs an organization’s value creation and capture activities (Casadesus‐
Masanell & Zhu, 2013; Chesbrough, 2010; Massa, Tucci & Afuah, 2017). Although the predominant 
underlying logic of business models is a single commercial or economic logic, increasingly business 
models embed social responsibility logics, so-called Business Models for Sustainability (BMfS) 
(Laasch, 2018a; Laasch & Pinkse, 2020; Lüdeke-Freund, 2020), leading to organizational hybridity 
and dual orientations. Hybrid organizations that combine a variety of logics – market-science logics, 
economic-social logics, commercial-community logics – have been studied by prior scholarship 
which has shown that they shape and influence organizational fields (Murray, 2010; Smith & 
Besharov, 2019). Prior studies have also explored the link between sustainable entrepreneurship 
and multiple logics, highlighting the duality of the entrepreneurial orientations and the reconciling 
of tensions (Hahn et al, 2014; DiVito & Bohnsack, 2017; Mair, Mayer & Lutz, 2015). However, few 
studies have investigated how field actors use BMfS, as representations of organizational hybridity, 
to respond to shifts in organizational field logics. Using this focus, we direct attention to the 
interactions between field level change and business models innovation, specifically in BMfS.  
Organizational fields are socially constructed constitutions of organizations that interact relationally 
based on commonly understood, institutionally embedded meanings and rules, or field logics 
(Scott, 2001). Field actors engage in strategic action and framing tactics that define the network of 
field actors, their shared practices and norms, and a common identity of enterprising. Recent work 
highlights that organizational fields form not only around central markets or technologies 
(exchange fields) but also around prominent issues (issue-based fields), such as climate change or 
environmental protection (Hoffman, 1999; Meyer & Höllerer, 2010; Wooten & Hoffman, 2008; 
Zietsma, et al, 2017) often requiring collective action to address the issues (Grodal & O’Mahoney, 
2017). Exchange fields and issue-based fields intersect triggering tensions, conflict and plurality in 
field membership and logic and influencing the trajectory of field evolution. Extant literature has 
shown that firms devise specific responses to tensions that arise from conflicting logics to maintain 
their legitimacy in the field (Ansari, Wijen & Gray, 2013; Klitsie, Ansari & Volberda, 2018). We 
investigate how field actors adapt their business models in response to field level logic plurality.  
Drawing on a longitudinal study in the fashion industry, we traced the field discourse on linear and 
circular logics from 2016 to 2020. We focus on how de novo and incumbent firms reconcile and 
respond to changing field logics through business model innovation and augmented our dataset 
with 27 in-depth interviews with field actors – de novo firms, incumbents, material innovators and 
field experts. Using rich, contextualized data from interviews and archival documentation, we 
elucidate how field actors respond to shifts in field logic and contribute to field evolution. Our 
findings uncovered a shift in the discourse on circular logic that diverted attention and resources 
from materials innovation to business model innovation. We derive four types of business model 
hybridization responses – constrained, limited, expanded, and integrated – that reconcile the 
plurality of field logics and maintain field legitimacy. We make novel contributions to theory on the 
intersection of field logic plurality and business models for sustainability.   
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
267 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Theoretical Framing 
Logic plurality in organizational fields 
Prior literature has established that institutional logics, ‘socially constructed, historical patterns of 
material practices, assumptions, values, beliefs and rules’, shape and co-evolve with the structure 
of organizational fields (Ocasio & Thornton, 1999, p. 804). Organizational fields are contextualized 
and negotiated spaces where organizations and actors purposefully interact and engage in debate, 
developing field level understandings or logics of shared cultural and normative practices (Battilana 
& Lee, 2014; Scott, 2010). They define which actors to engage with, which problems to debate, 
which solutions are appropriate, and result from bidirectional processes in which actors influence 
field structures, frames, and logics that in turn influence field actors (Gray, Purdy & Ansari, 2015; 
Purdy, Ansari & Gray, 2019). Whereas prior literature understood fields to have a dominant logic 
and homogeneous organizations due to isomorphic pressure for organizational members to create 
field legitimacy (Meyer & Rowan, 1977; DiMaggio & Powell, 1983), more recent literature has 
shown that fields consist of multiple logics causing conflicting tensions, institutional plurality, and 
organizational heterogeneity (Laasch, 2018b; Greenwood et al, 2010).  
Recently, scholars on organizational fields have begun to distinguish between types of fields – 
exchange and issue fields (Zietsma et al, 2017). The focal interest of exchange fields is the 
coordination and interaction with exchange partners, such as customers or suppliers who share 
common meanings, practices, and conventions. In contrast, issue fields center on common issues 
(e.g. climate change or plastic waste) rather than exchange relationships and may extend across 
different exchange fields (O’Sullivan & O’Dwyer, 2015; Quarshie, Salmi & Wu, 2019; Wooten & 
Hoffman, 2008; Zietsma et al. 2017). Issue fields affect institutional processes of field formation 
differently and having a temporary nature, they may dissolve or eventually be absorbed into 
exchange fields. In issue fields, shared meanings, practices, and norms are negotiated, contested 
and dynamic. In contrast to exchange fields that have more shared and stable institutions, issue 
fields are usually highly pluralistic with a diverse set of actors and multiple, conflicting logics. 
 In institutional plurality, exchange and issue field logics co-exist, co-evolve, compete, or replace 
other logics (Meyer and Höllerer; 2010). Institutional plurality in fields generates spaces for 
institutional innovation and change (Battilana et al, 2015; Cartel, Boxenbaum & Aggeri, 2019; 
Tracey, Phillips & Jarvis, 2011; York et al, 2016), creating conditions for hybrid organizations, that 
involve many stakeholders, pursue conflicting goals, and engage in inconsistent activities, to 
flourish (Mair et al, 2015; Besharov & Smith, 2014). In reconciling institutional plurality, field level 
actors purposefully frame courses of action and identities to mobilize others to follow suit and 
thereby maintain their field legitimacy (Cornelissen & Werner, 2016; Kodeih & Greenwood, 2014). 
Increasingly business models are reflections of these responses as field actors search for ways to 
respond to institutional complexity and plurality (Ocasio & Radoynovska, 2016; Stål & Corvellec, 
2018). We align with the argument in the literature that field level actors (such as sustainable 
entrepreneurs in de novo and incumbent firms) navigate institutional plurality, reconcile competing 
logics, and engage in legitimization strategies to establish organizational and field level identities 
and business models consistent with the institutional logics of the field (Laasch & Pinkse, 2020).  
Field-level logics and business models for sustainability  
Business models are conceptualizations of organizational value systems or logics representing how 
firms create, deliver and capture value (Emerson, 2003; George & Bock, 2011; George et al, 2021; 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
268 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Lüdeke-Freund & Dembek, 2017) and are shaped by a variety of institutional logics. Business models 
for sustainability (BMfS) are inherently hybrid organizations that combine two or more 
heterogeneous logics, for example social and commercial logics or ecological and commercial logics 
or a combination thereof (Battilana & Lee, 2014; Bocken et al, 2014; Pache & Santos, 2010; Laasch, 
2018b; Stubbs & Cocklin, 2008). Normative elements of BMfS include having a blended value 
proposition that incorporates ecological, social and economic benefits, uses principles of 
sustainable supply chain management, maintains close relationships with customers and suppliers, 
and shares economic costs and benefits fairly among stakeholders (Schaltegger, Hansen & Lüdeke-
Freund, 2016). It can be assumed that multiple, complex, and conflicting logics that require actors 
to make concessions are at play in hybrid organizations that employ BMfS (Pache & Santos, 2013). 
Studies have shown that to cope with institutional plurality and conflicting logics, hybrid 
organizations are highly reflexive and strategically isomorphic, aligning and distancing themselves 
from logics when advantageous. Pache & Santos (2010) studied four social enterprises in France 
and showed that hybrid organizations engage in selectively coupling field level logic elements to 
gain field legitimacy and selectively decoupling when the logic is incongruent with their values. A 
study from Vaskelainen and Münzel (2018) on business model development in the German 
carsharing industry found that institutional logics empower some business models and inhibit 
others, showing that trajectories of business model development relate to the actors’ adherence 
to prevalent institutional logics. Their findings align with the claim in the literature that institutional 
plurality leads to greater organizational heterogeneity rather than isomorphism (Ocasio & 
Radoynovska, 2016) as actors prioritize institutional logics and make distinct combinations (York, 
O’Neil & Sarasvathy, 2016). Business models, and business models for sustainability, provide 
opportunities for organizations to respond to institutional plurality and to create innovative 
solutions to complex problems (Desa, 2012; Roome & Louche, 2016).  
In the literature on business model innovation (BMI), business models are argued to function as 
vehicles to boost innovative solutions concerning processes, products, services, or the business 
model itself (Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013; Evans et al, 2017; Pieroni, McAloone & Pigosso, 2019; 
Snihur & Wiklund, 2019). Much literature has theorized and studied business model innovation 
occurring from exogenous shocks and BMI has been applied to specific domains in need of 
fundamental change, such as sustainability and circular economy (Geissdoerfer et al, 2017; Pieroni 
et al, 2019). We argue that BMI also drives transformational change in fields and facilitates 
heterogeneity and co-existence of multiple institutional logics and heed the call in the literature to 
focus on individual organizations and their influence on field level dynamics (Laasch, 2018b).  
Methodology 
We conducted an inductive, longitudinal case study to explore the interplay of field level change 
and BMfS (Yin, 2003). We focus on a single sector, the fashion industry, following examples in prior 
studies (Grodal & O’Mahoney, 2017; Lee, Ramos & Vaccaro, 2018; Ozcan & Gurses, 2018). The 
fashion industry offers an ideal setting for several reasons. First the fashion industry, which 
generates 1.5 trillion Euros in annual revenue and employs 60 million people in its value chain 
(Global Fashion Agenda, 2017, 2020), garners much criticism from society, media and stakeholders 
for its negative social and environmental impacts. On the environmental side, the production of 
fashion products contributes to water overconsumption, toxic chemical use and textile waste and 
occurs in production countries where workers are often subjected to overtime, a lack of living 
wages and unsafe working conditions. The fashion industry’s pursuit of economic growth at the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
269 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
expense of people and planet has increasingly moved to the center of attention. Scandals such as 
child labor or the Rana Plaza factory collapse have raised consumer awareness of the existing perils 
of production and put companies under collective pressure from stakeholders and activist groups 
to change.  
Second, against this backdrop, there is a growing interest among industry players to move towards 
circular production and business models. The prevalent fast fashion business model fundamentally 
changed consumption of fashion products and increased the use of raw materials (Hvass, 2016; 
Hvass & Pedersen, 2019). Circular business models that extend product lifecycles, recycle and 
regenerate resources offer solutions to the pressing sustainability issues that plague the fashion 
industry (Berg et al, 2020). Adopting a circular logic, instead of a linear one that assumes endless 
growth, consumption, and extraction of raw materials, is particularly significant for changing the 
organizational field.   
Data collection 
We collected qualitative data over a 5-year period using multiple methods. Our initial data 
collection focused on understanding the use of recycled waste in textile products and business 
models. As we engaged in the field, our attention shifted from recycled waste to understanding 
circularity in product design, production, and business models. We gathered data from three main 
sources – observations of field events, in-depth interviews, and industry newsletters. From 2019 to 
2021, we attended and observed several field configuration events (FCEs) in Denmark and the 
Netherlands. We conducted semi-structured in-depth interviews with sustainable fashion 
entrepreneurs of de novo firms and sustainability managers in incumbent firms. We purposefully 
selected sustainable fashion firms that used business models to create value from waste (Bocken 
et al, 2014). We asked questions about circular business models and the opportunities and 
challenges of using waste materials. We also collected secondary data from the Fashion 
Sustainability Week in Review (FSWIR) twice-weekly newsletter from 2016 to 2021. This dataset 
consisted of 290 newsletters. We performed keyword searches for ‘circular’, ‘recycling’, ‘waste’, 
‘resale’, ‘rental’ and ‘take back’ that resulted in 331 news items covering 26 countries. We compiled 
a list of incumbents and collected additional data from in-depth interviews, media and reports 
about selected incumbents. All interviews were recorded and transcribed for coding and analysis. 
In total, we conducted 27 interviews with different industry actors – sustainable entrepreneurs, 
material suppliers, incumbents, and field experts. 
Data analysis 
The stages of data analysis occurred iteratively throughout the data collection period. We moved 
from the detailed codes to axial codes and identified eight second order themes (Gioia et al, 2013) 
to make sense of the data. We also developed temporal mapping of the industry based on the 
FSWIR news items (figure 1) and identified overall trends in the industry discourse (figure 2). We 
observed that recycling is a contested concept of circular logic, and we witnessed a shift from 
recycling as closed loop circularity, where the value of waste resources is maintained within the 
production system to recycling as open loop circularity, where waste from other industries enters 
textile production, or where textile waste is used for products with lower value external to the 
industry. We also saw a rise of criticism about overproduction and overconsumption in the fashion 
industry with the fast fashion model becoming symbolic for linear logic. The rising sentiment called 
for more than recycling alone and shifted attention and discourse to circular business models, 
particularly rental and resale business models. We grouped the news items into four categories – 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
270 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
recycling, circularity, rental, and resale – that fold into two overarching dimensions: field logics and 
business models for sustainability. This combination of analyses allowed us to reflectively tease out 
meanings and findings and guided our theorizing about the interplay between field level logics, 
BMfS and organizational field change.  
 
Figure 1. Temporal mapping of news items on material innovation and business model innovation 
 
 
Figure 2. Number of coded news items by year, n=214 
Findings 
We observed how logics co-exist in an organizational field and in business models for sustainability 
and how de novo and incumbent firms respond to shifts in dominant field logic. The dominant field 
logic in our case study is the linear logic, but this logic has been consistently challenged since the 
mid 2000s and de novo firms entered the industry using BMfS that primarily focused on using more 
sustainable virgin materials (e.g. organic cotton) or recycled materials. Our data analysis and the 
findings we discuss in this section trace how the discourse on circular logics shifts and how de novo 
and incumbent firms respond to the changing field logic.  
Phase 1: Framing recycled materials as ‘closed loop’ circularity 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
271 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
De novo firms began incorporating the use of recycled fabrics in product collections as far back as 
2008 and claimed to be more sustainable than incumbents because they used organic virgin 
materials (e.g. cotton) or recycled polyester from polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and fishing nets 
or recycled pre-consumer and post-consumer textiles. The founder of DEEL explained the rationale 
for the materials they use, “… we basically work with 100% organic cotton or 100% recycled 
polyester, because … I can theoretically put a synthetic product back into the cycle, provided it is 
pure fiber, 100% polyester … [and] 100% cotton.” The purposeful decision to use ‘pure’ materials, 
whether recycled or virgin, indicated the intention to be sustainable and circular, returning 
materials back into the production cycle for reuse. 
Small de novo firms responded swiftly to innovative opportunities to use recycled materials. Data 
from our interviews shows that BMfS in de novo firms aimed to influence the broader field, 
especially in the use of innovative recycled materials. The founders we interviewed described their 
role in the industry as innovators: 
“The more small businesses like ours disrupt the industry, the more the bigger players like Nike and 
Adidas will feel pressure to follow suit. We hope that by paving the way, we can encourage all fashion 
retailers to step away from ‘fast fashion’ and start utilizing the raw materials we have available to 
us.” (SUDRI) 
Small brands, as de novo or incumbent innovators, experimented with new materials or business 
models but lacked the volumes to drive the adoption of the innovation. Large brands, primarily 
multinational incumbent firms, provided volume and economies of scale, influencing broader field 
level change. From our interviews with incumbents, a respondent explained a clear distinction 
between the roles of small and large brands.  
“If you think of small brands that are on the leading edge and trying to prove that things are possible 
…, it can be hard for larger brands like ourselves to follow that same strategy. We have a really hard 
time being first to market with much of anything. With materials that are new, you see brands like 
Allbirds able to have this pipeline of cool product launches with novel materials, but they are small 
and nimble and able to invest. We are just a different beast … They [small firms] can partner with 
material innovators, prove that something is gonna work for a commercial grade product and maybe 
they can’t give that supplier the largest volume, [but] then I’m totally happy being a fast follower.” 
(PAGI) 
By 2016 several incumbent firms had launched collections with recycled materials, particularly in 
denim products because they contain nearly 100% cotton content which is more favorable for 
recycling and in sportswear because they can incorporate recycled PET in polyester blends. For 
example, Adidas launched a shoe consisting of 95% recycled plastic picked up off beaches of 
Maldives and Patagonia launched the Re\\\Collection. H&M also introduced a line of activewear 
made from recycled polyester and announced in its 2018 sustainability report its mission to ‘close 
the loop’.  
In this first phase, the use of recycled material in new products was an initial step towards circular 
logic in business models and it was firmly established in BMfS of small sustainable fashion firms. In 
contrast, large incumbents launched capsule collections but for the most part the linear logic in 
incumbents’ business models dominated, leading to criticism and questions from various field 
actors, such as activists and small firms, about their sustainability ambitions and claims.  
“The big firms are now, in the last couple of years, they are pushing [sustainability]. [But] I also 
wonder [about] the percentage that they are actually doing …” (YUKI) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
272 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Phase 2: Reframing recycling as ‘open loop’ 
From our dataset of news items, we saw a rise of criticism from activists, industry consultants and 
expert organizations about the potential environmental benefits of recycling textiles and fibers. In 
2016, Greenpeace brought attention to the ‘illusion’ of recycling and called out, “Fast fashion is 
drowning the world”, arguing that the volume of recycled fibers is not sufficient to have sustainable 
impact given the growing consumption and disposal of clothing. Shortly thereafter, Greenpeace 
published two reports, Timeout for Fast Fashion and Fashion at the Crossroads, intentionally 
shifting the discourse in the industry away from the ‘myth of re-use and recycling’ and towards the 
problem of overconsumption fueled by the fast fashion model.  
Criticism about using recycled plastic waste also came from another angle as researchers and 
experts published studies highlighting the harmful effects of microfibers from recycled PET in 
fabrics ending up in oceans through laundry wastewater. Mainstream news outlets, like The 
Guardian, Vogue, Forbes and FastCompany, published stories on the shortcomings of recycling to 
solve the industry’s sustainability problems, for instance, an article published in FastCompany 
pointed out “… while recycling is important, it misses the mark” in reducing emissions.  
As the public discourse continued and emphasized recycling as only a partial solution to the growing 
sustainability issues in the industry, attention shifted to slowing fashion down. In 2020, the United 
Nations Environment Programme published a report about “the effects of an industry that is 
engineered to overproduce”. The media (Reuters) drew parallels between the fashion industry and 
‘big oil’, stating that fashion finds itself in the same conundrum, “the only way to save the planet is 
to scale back production”. The recycling solution is reframed not as a closed loop circular solution 
(e.g. from textile-to-textile) but as an open loop circular solution, and as one that allows fast fashion 
to maintain a business model that relies on overproduction and overconsumption. Industry 
discourse contrasted recycling in opposition to circularity, establishing the notion that recycling 
addresses sustainability as an ‘isolated’ problem in the fashion system, whereas circularity is a more 
‘holistic’ approach to the issues. In other words, recycling plays a role but consumption, product 
design, business models, the whole system needed radical transformation to address the 
impending sustainability challenges in the industry.   
Our data showed various responses to the reframing of recycling. The founders of de novo firms in 
our sample had deep convictions about sustainable fashion products and considered themselves to 
be on the periphery of the industry and dissociated their firms and BMfS from fast fashion or the 
general fashion industry. The founder from NAVE referred to this dissociation explicitly as, “… so in 
the real fashion industry, not the sustainable fashion industry …” and emphasized that in the real 
fashion industry the problem is, “that people don’t value their clothing, which translates into 
overconsumption.” All the de novo firms considered their BMfS to be opposed to the (fast) fashion 
industry, focusing on slow fashion, classic styles, and durable quality.  
I wanted to do classic styles also to support the slow fashion. (TELCAR) 
[We] believe that clothing should be of a high quality and last a long time, instead of being cheap 
and disposable. (SUDRI) 
However, deriving value from waste and using recycled materials was an essential component of 
their products and the rationale of their BMfS. Their responses to the changing discourse around 
recycling, varied depending on their specific context and product markets. For example, the 
founder of AIR aligned with the changing discourse as she focused on upcycling textiles for the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
273 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
upper part of shoes specifically to avoid recycling, “… before recycling, there should be another 
step. Like before we start … breaking it down to the fiber level, we have all these fabrics that are in 
really good condition that we can actually use.” She also held strong opinions about ocean plastics 
in fabrics, stating that she “would not use it for fashion” but for other products like “… chairs … that 
do not release microfibers as much as clothing”. In her view, a circular logic considered more than 
“what we use [recycled materials] for, not just re-circulating to reach circular, but re-circulating in 
the right way.” 
Alternatively, DISTOC, who produces sustainable hosiery with up to 88% of recycled polyester, 
distanced their firm from the discourse by acknowledging the challenges of producing fully circular 
hosiery. Hosiery material is very delicate and although they “employ strategies that will make them 
last longer”, like toe enforcements, the product has a relatively short life cycle and is discarded after 
a few uses. A lack of technological innovation makes it difficult to recycle hosiery products into new 
materials because it’s a blended fabric. Additionally, since discarded hosiery is mostly incinerated, 
DISTOC started a Recycling Club for its customers to return discarded hosiery at end of life, which 
they then downcycled into insulation for fiberglass tanks, or, more recently, upcycled into designer 
tables.  
To address the issue of microfibers from plastics in fabrics, DISTOC generalized the problem, stating, 
“… I mean, all synthetics will release micro plastics … there’s nothing that I know of that we can do 
to help stop that other than don’t wear synthetics. [But] … we are moving into more of the natural 
fiber line.” The respondent emphasized focusing on issues that they could impact, and that the 
microfiber issue was not the appropriate problem for them. 
 “… there are many problems to be solved … and you can't solve them all. … We have to focus on 
other things like making sure that hosiery does not end up in landfill and finding a way to bring our 
recycling program [to send back hosiery] to as many people around the world as possible.” (DISTOC) 
In phase 2, we observed changes to the broader industry discourse that redefined recycling as a 
partial solution to achieving circularity. The discourse touted the advantages of a circular fashion 
system and circularity permeated industry fora, such as Copenhagen Fashion Summit. Field actors 
committed to pledges and agreements to transform to a circular fashion industry and 
multistakeholder collaborations focusing on circular solutions increased. Leading incumbents 
announced ambitious sustainability goals. For example, Nike announced it would double its 
business while reducing by half its environmental impact and, in an interview in Vogue, the CEO of 
H&M argued that moving towards circularity would allow H&M to “decouple growth and 
production of garments from the use of natural resources” and to address overproduction.  
Phase 3: Integrating circularity in business models  
The discourse on sustainability challenges catalyzed a shift among field actors towards using a 
circular logic and triggered business model innovation. The shift is particularly pronounced in the 
number of take-back systems that incumbents initiated since 2017. Take-back systems are essential 
for circular business models as they provide feedstock as either final products for rental and resale 
business models or input materials for upcycling, downcycling and recycling. However, the small de 
novo firms in our sample that had established BMfS based on recycling waste faced difficulties in 
incorporating more holistic elements of circular business models. A few incorporated take-back 
systems, such as DISTOC and MOWS, but they primarily downcycled the collected products. For 
DISTOC – who implemented a take-back program at the time of their founding in 2013 – there were 
barriers to closed loop circularity. As already discussed, making new hosiery from old hosiery is not 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
274 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
technologically feasible and hosiery is a product that cannot be easily resold in second-hand 
markets.  
NAVE shared a similar dilemma. The founder considered starting a take-back scheme by offering 
incentives, such as a discount if customers sent back swimwear for recycling, but hesitated because 
of the effort involved in “becoming our own recycling plant”. Another barrier to integrating more 
circularity into NAVE’s business model was the resale potential of swimwear products.  However, 
TELCAR, another de novo firm in our sample that also produces swimwear, did not see the same 
barrier as NAVE in reselling swimwear. All in all, from our interview data, we noted that the small 
firms faced limitations in expanding their business models to incorporate more circularity, due to 
their product category, resources and capabilities or a combination thereof. 
Incumbents, on the other hand, engaged in extensive business model innovation to incorporate 
circularity. While well-known industry front runners, Patagonia and Eileen Fisher, started take-back 
systems prior to 2010 and had established circular business models, large incumbent brands started 
to experiment with circularity. From the incumbents’ perspective, a circular logic is compatible with 
the growth model that is inherent in the fast fashion system. The incumbents we interviewed were 
“excited about the potential for circularity to grow”, describing it as different than the ‘usual 
sustainability work’ and as a ‘business opportunity’. For incumbents, circular business model 
innovation also effected changes in circular product design and material recirculation, with the 
promise of impacting the field level logic change over time, as explained by one of the incumbents 
we interviewed. 
“Circularity is very important and the ultimate goal is to be circular by design. It’s a business enabler 
for us, and systemic and the industry needs to be circular.” (STEL) 
 
Our data pointed to different patterns of experimentation and interaction between field actors. 
First, there was an increasing number of partnerships between incumbents and de novo firms to 
establish take-back systems and introduce rental or resale models. However, even though several 
large incumbent brands such as Zara (Inditex), H&M, Target and Primark had scaled up their take-
back systems worldwide, only H&M engaged in circular business model innovation. They 
experimented with rental for women’s dresses, children’s wear, and men’s suits, and with resale 
by partnering with the online resale platform Farfetch. Large retailers such as Tchibo, Nordstrom, 
Galerie Lafeyette and Selfridges also experimented with rental models by partnering with online 
rental platforms such as HURR Collective or Rent the Runway.  
Our data shows that the field level shift towards circular logic in the fashion industry is an iterative 
interplay between de novo and incumbent firms, where issue and exchange fields intersect. The 
founders of the de novo firms in our sample recognized their role as innovators and advocates of 
the circular logic, as exemplified below. 
“When it comes to fostering systemic change, typically it’s the small-medium business that ‘do’ and 
then the large corporates follow. Small businesses like [mine] may only have a small market share, 
but with the right marketing and customer loyalty, we can spread the word about what we are doing 
and once consumers become accustomed to a certain level of quality, diversity, and ethics in their 
purchases, it will be them who in turn put pressure on the large corporates to start providing that 
same level. It is once the large corporates are on board that this style of fashion production will 
become the norm. …” (SUDRI) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
275 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
PAGI elaborated on this interplay of incumbent and de novo firms in terms of the roles they play in 
the ecosystem, emphasizing that “firms of different sizes fill a different niche” and all together they 
move the industry forward.   
“… larger firms have the advantage of reaching more customers and if they are going to play a role 
in take back and collection side of things, they can do so much more so much faster than a small firm 
doing the same. I guess what is inspiring is on recommerce, the firms that have started to create 
white label sites within their products, like North Face’s Renew programme, Patagonia WornWear, 
… if the goal is to take back your own product and somehow get that to a secondary consumer, then 
a small brand has an advantage. But if it’s to drag the shift towards just getting product out of landfill, 
I don’t think the small companies can really shift that equation. They are just too small to make a 
difference.” (PAGI) 
Discussion 
We argue that field level logics are influenced by the interplay between de novo and incumbent 
firms and by their responses to tensions arising from logic plurality. Our study traced the circular 
logic discourse and uncovered a shift in the discourse that diverted attention and resources from 
recycling and materials innovation to implementing circular business models. The circular logic co-
existed, complemented, and conflicted with linear logic and field actors reconciled the tensions in 
the field logics through a variety of hybridized business model responses. By juxtaposing the degree 
of field logic tension with the degree of business model innovation, we identify four business model 
hybridization responses – constrained, limited, expanded, and integrated – that actors engaged in 
to maintain legitimacy (figure 3).  
Business model responses to emerging field logic  
When the emerging field logic has a high degree of tension with the existing logic of the business 
model (a conflicting logic), we witnessed two responses in business model innovation, a constrained 
response and an expanded response. A constrained response occurred when actors lacked 
resources, capabilities, or technology to adapt to the emerging logic and used selective decoupling 
to dissociate from the logic and maintain legitimacy. For example, the large incumbent firms were 
constrained in their efforts to produce collections using recycling textiles, primarily due to 
maintaining scale and volume for their extant business models. However, an expanded response 
occurred when actors perceived opportunities for expansion that were compatible with the existing 
business model logic and had slack resources to direct towards business model innovation. In other 
words, the emerging field logic could co-exist with the existing business model logic, resulting in 
greater business model hybridization. This occurred in several incumbent firms as they 
experimented with a variety of responses to the rise of the rental and resale circular business 
models, effectively combining linear and circular logics and expanding their business models. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
276 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 3. Business model response to changing field logic 
When the emerging field logic has a low degree of tension with the existing business model, we 
also identified two responses on business model innovation: limited and integrated. In these 
responses, the emerging logic is complementary to the existing business model logic. As in the 
constrained response, a limited response in business model innovation occurred due to lack of 
resources, capabilities, or technology, but the complementary nature of the logics allowed them to 
selectively couple elements of the emerging logic. For example, even though the small de novo 
firms could not adopt rental or resale circular business models due to resources, capability, or 
technology limitations, they selectively coupled with slow fashion, which extends product life and 
addresses overproduction, to maintain the legitimacy of their BMfS in the emerging circular logic. 
The high level of complementary between the circular logic and their business models limited 
productive tensions and space for innovation in their business models. Lastly, an integrated 
response occurred when the emerging logic is congruent with the existing business model logic and 
there are no resource constraints to integrating the emerging logic. For example, frontrunner 
incumbents in circular or sustainable fashion, such as Patagonia or Eileen Fisher, easily integrated 
circular business models (such as repair and resale models) adhering to the emerging circular logic. 
New entrants based on circular business models also fall into this category, as their firms entered 
the field with BMfS adhering to the emerging logic. The emerging logic is an integrated part of the 
existing business model.  
Contributions 
Our findings make contributions to the extant work on organizational field logic and business 
models for sustainability, highlighting the interplay of actors in establishing, reinforcing and 
renegotiating spaces for experimentation and innovation (Ansari, Wijen & Gray, 2013; Le Ber & 
Branzei, 2010; Litrico & David, 2017). By showing how business models (for sustainability) adapt to 
shifting field logics, we advance our understanding of how logic plurality co-exists and persists in 
organizational fields.  
First, our findings build on recent work of institutional complexity in organizational fields and 
business model heterogeneity (Laasch & Pinkse, 2017; Ocasio & Radoynovska, 2016; Vaskelainen & 
Münzel, 2018) and provide empirical evidence of the hybridization of business models in response 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
277 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
to logic plurality. Our study also makes contributions to how fields change and evolve over time 
(Zietsma et al, 2017), where we show that field discourse shapes the speed at which field change 
occurs and defines the negotiated space of experimentation. We also show that issue field logic 
evolution, where shared meanings and understandings are continuously contested and redefined, 
is not linear.  
Second, our findings contribute to the literatures on business models for sustainability and business 
model innovation, extending our understanding of business models (for sustainability) as 
mechanisms for field level change that actors use to reconcile emerging and shifting logics. In this 
regard, we provide empirical evidence to the theoretical assumptions put forth in the literature 
that business models mediate innovation in processes, products, or services (Boons & Lüdeke-
Freund. 2013; Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002; Doganova & Eyquem‐Renault, 2009; Lüdeke-
Freund, 2020; Snihur & Wiklund, 2019), unlocking and capturing innovative potential to improve 
economic, ecological, and social sustainability. We also extend prior work on circular business 
models (Bocken et al., 2016; Geissdoerfer et al., 2017) by showing that systemic change can only 
be achieved when circular thinking is implemented in both products and business models.  
Conclusion 
To conclude, we conducted a field study of the fashion industry and focused on the circular logic 
that is emerging in the field. Our findings showed that the discourse used to define circular logic 
shifted attention from recycling materials to circular business models. We uncovered how de novo 
and incumbent firms responded to the changing circular logic of the field through business model 
(for sustainability) innovation. The meanings and understandings of circular logic, that co-exist, 
complement, or conflict with other existing logics, are dynamic and continuously negotiated by field 
actors. Our study brings together disparate literatures on organizational fields and business models 
for sustainability and argues that business models for sustainability influence organizational field 
change. 
 
References  
Ansari, S., Wijen, F., & Gray, B. (2013). Constructing a climate change logic: An institutional perspective on 
the “tragedy of the commons”. Organization Science, 24(4), 1014-1040. 
Battilana, J., & Lee, M. (2014). Advancing research on hybrid organizing – Insights from the study of social 
enterprises. Academy of Management Annals, 8(1), 397-441. 
Battilana, J., Sengul, M., Pache, A.C., & Model, J. (2015). Harnessing Productive Tensions in Hybrid 
Organizations: The Case of Work Integration Social Enterprises. Academy of Management Journal, 58(6), 
1658–1685. 
Berg, A., Karl-Hendrik, M., Granskog, A., Lee, L., Sawers, C., & Polgampola, P. (2020). Fashion on climate. 
McKinsey & Company, 52. 
Besharov, M. L., & Smith, W. K. (2014). Multiple institutional logics in organizations: Explaining their varied 
nature and implications. Academy of Management Review, 39(3), 364-381. 
Bocken, N. M P, Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014). A literature and practice review to develop 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production, 65, 42–56.  
Bocken, N. M., De Pauw, I., Bakker, C., & Van Der Grinten, B. (2016). Product design and business model 
strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering, 33(5), 308-320.  
Boons, F., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013). Business models for sustainable innovation: State-of-the-art and steps 
towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production, 45, 9–19.  
Cartel, M., Boxenbaum, E., & Aggeri, F. (2019). Just for fun! How experimental spaces stimulate innovation in 
institutionalized fields. Organization Studies, 40(1), 65-92. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
278 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Casadesus‐Masanell, R., & Zhu, Fen. (2013). Business model innovation and competitive imitation: The case 
of sponsor-based business models. Strategic Management Journal, 34(4), 464–482.  
Chesbrough, H. (2010). Business model innovation: opportunities and barriers. Long Range Planning, 43(2-3), 
354-363. 
Chesbrough, H., & Rosenbloom, R. S. (2002). The role of the business model in capturing value from 
innovation: evidence from Xerox Corporation's technology spin‐off companies. Industrial and Corporate 
Change, 11(3), 529-555.  
Cornelissen, J. P., & Werner, M. D. (2014). Putting Framing in Perspective: A Review of Framing and Frame 
Analysis across the Management and Organizational Literature. Academy of Management Annals, 8(1), 181–
235. 
Desa, G. (2012). Resource mobilization in international social entrepreneurship: Bricolage as a mechanism of 
institutional transformation. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 36(4), 727-751. 
DiMaggio, P., & Powell, W. W. (1983). The Iron Cage Revisited: Institutional Isomorphism and Collective 
Rationality in Organizational Fields. American Sociological Review, 48(2), 147–160. 
DiVito, L., & Bohnsack, R. (2017). Entrepreneurial orientation and its effect on sustainability decision 
tradeoffs: The case of sustainable fashion firms. Journal of Business Venturing, 32(5), 569-587. 
Doganova, L., & Eyquem-Renault, M. (2009). What do business models do?: Innovation devices in technology 
entrepreneurship. Research Policy, 38(10), 1559-1570.  
Emerson, J. (2003). The blended value proposition: Integrating social and financial returns. California 
Management Review, 45(4), 35-51. 
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Van Fossen, K., Yang, M., Silva, E. A., & Barlow, C.Y. (2017). Business 
model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for creation of sustainable business 
models. Business Strategy and the Environment, 26(5), 597-608. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M. P., & Hultink, E. J. (2017). The Circular Economy – A new 
sustainability paradigm? Journal of Cleaner Production.  
George, G., Haas, M. R., McGahan, A. M., Schillebeeckx, S. J., & Tracey, P. (2021). Purpose in the for-profit 
firm: A review and framework for management research. Journal of Management. 
George, G., & Bock, A. J. (2011). The Business Model in Practice and its Implications for Entrepreneurship 
Research. Entrepreneurship: Theory & Practice, 35(1), 83–111.  
Gioia, D. A., Corley, K. G., & Hamilton, A. L. (2013). Seeking qualitative rigor in inductive research: Notes on 
the Gioia methodology. Organizational Research Methods, 16(1), 15-31. 
Global Fashion Agenda. (2017). Pulse of the fashion Industry. 
Global Fashion Agenda. (2020). Global Fashion Agenda Explains: Redesigning Value. Copenhagen Fashion 
Summit 2020 (CFS+).  
Gray, B., Purdy, J. M., & Ansari, S. (2015). From Interactions to Institutions: Microprocesses of Framing and 
Mechanisms for the Structuring of Institutional Fields. Academy of Management Review, 40(1), 115–143. 
Greenwood, R., Díaz, A. M., Li, S. X., & Lorente, J. C. (2010). The multiplicity of institutional logics and the 
heterogeneity of organizational responses. Organization Science, 21(2), 521-539. 
Grodal, S., & O’Mahony, S. (2017). How does a grand challenge become displaced? Explaining the duality of 
field mobilization. Academy of Management Journal, 60(5), 1801-1827. 
Hahn, T., Preuss, L., Pinkse, J., & Figge, F. (2014). Cognitive Frames in Corporate Sustainability: Managerial 
Sensemaking with Paradoxical and Business Case Frames. Academy of Management Review, 39(4), 463–487. 
Hoffman, A. J. (1999). Institutional evolution and change: Environmentalism and the US chemical industry. 
Academy of Management Journal, 42(4), 351-371. 
Hvass, K. K. (2016). Weaving a Path from Waste to Value: Exploring fashion industry business models and the 
circular economy. In PhD series, No. 06-2016. Copenhagen Business School. 
Hvass, K. K., & Pedersen, E. R. G. (2019). Toward circular economy of fashion: Experiences from a brand’s 
product take-back initiative. Journal of Fashion Marketing and Management: An International Journal. 
Klitsie, E. J., Ansari, S., & Volberda, H. W. (2018). Maintenance of cross-sector partnerships: The role of frames 
in sustained collaboration. Journal of Business Ethics, 150(2), 401-423. 
Kodeih, F., & Greenwood, R. (2014). Responding to Institutional Complexity: The Role of Identity. 
Organization Studies, 35(1), 7–39. 
Laasch, O. (2018a). Just old wine in new bottles? Conceptual shifts in the emerging field of responsible 
management. Centre for Responsible Management Education Working Papers, 4(1), 135-147. 
Laasch, O. (2018b). Beyond the purely commercial business model: Organizational value logics and the 
heterogeneity of sustainability business models. Long Range Planning, 51(1), 158–183.  
Laasch, O., & Pinkse, J. (2020). Explaining the leopards’ spots: Responsibility-embedding in business model 
artefacts across spaces of institutional complexity. Long Range Planning, 53(4), 101891. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
279 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Le Ber, M., & Branzei, O. (2010). Value Frame Fusion in Cross Sector Interactions. Journal of Business Ethics, 
94, 163–195.  
Lee, M., Ramus, T., & Vaccaro, A. (2018). From protest to product: Strategic frame brokerage in a commercial 
social movement organization. Academy of Management Journal, 61(6), 2130-2158. 
Litrico, J. B., & David, R. J. (2017). The evolution of issue interpretation within organizational fields: Actor 
positions, framing trajectories, and field settlement. Academy of Management Journal, 60(3), 986-1015. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Dembek, K. (2017). Sustainable business model research and practice: Emerging field or 
passing fancy? Journal of Cleaner Production, 168, 1668–1678.  
Lüdeke‐Freund, F. (2020). Sustainable entrepreneurship, innovation, and business models: Integrative 
framework and propositions for future research. Business Strategy and the Environment, 29(2), 665–681.  
Mair, J., Mayer, J., & Lutz, E. (2015). Navigating institutional plurality: Organizational governance in hybrid 
organizations. Organization Studies, 36(6), 713-739. 
Massa, L., Tucci, C. L., & Afuah, A. (2017). A Critical Assessment of Business Model Research. Academy of 
Management Annals, 11(1), 73–104.  
Meyer, R. E., & Höllerer, M. A. (2010). Meaning structures in a contested issue field: A topographic map of 
shareholder value in Austria. Academy of Management Journal, 53(6), 1241-1262. 
Meyer, J. W., & Rowan, B. (1977). Institutionalized Organizations: Formal Structure as Myth and Ceremony. 
American Journal of Sociology, 83(2), 340–363. 
Murray, F. (2010). The oncomouse that roared: Hybrid exchange strategies as a source of distinction at the 
boundary of overlapping institutions. American Journal of Sociology, 116(2), 341-388.  
O’Sullivan, N., & O’Dwyer, B. (2015). The structuration of issue-based fields: Social accountability, social 
movements and the Equator Principles issue-based field. Accounting, Organizations and Society, 43: 33–55.  
Ocasio, W., & Radoynovska, N. (2016). Strategy and commitments to institutional logics: Organizational 
heterogeneity in business models and governance. Strategic Organization, 14(4), 287–309.  
Ozcan, P., & Gurses, K. (2018). Playing cat and mouse: Contests over regulatory categorization of dietary 
supplements in the United States. Academy of Management Journal, 61(5), 1789-1820. 
Pache, A. C., & Santos, F. (2010). When worlds collide: The internal dynamics of organizational responses to 
conflicting institutional demands. Academy of Management Review, 35(3), 455-476. 
Pache, A.-C., & Santos, F. (2013). Inside the Hybrid Organization: Selective Coupling as a Response to 
Competing Institutional Logics. Academy of Management Journal, 56(4), 972–1001. 
Pieroni, M. P. P., McAloone, T. C., & Pigosso, D. C. A. (2019). Business model innovation for circular economy 
and sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of Cleaner Production, 215, 198–216.  
Purdy, J., Ansari, S., & Gray, B. (2019). Are logics enough? Framing as an alternative tool for understanding 
institutional meaning making. Journal of Management Inquiry, 28(4), 409-419. 
Quarshie, A., Salmi, A., & Wu, Z. (2019). From equivocality to reflexivity in biodiversity protection. 
Organization & Environment.  
Roome, N., & Louche, C. (2016). Journeying Toward Business Models for Sustainability: A Conceptual Model 
Found Inside the Black Box of Organisational Transformation. Organization and Environment, 29(1), 11–35.  
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. G., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016). Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, Present 
Research, and Future Avenues. Organization and Environment, 29(1), 3–10.  
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Hansen, E. G. (2016). Business models for sustainability: A co-
evolutionary analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, innovation, and transformation. Organization & 
Environment, 29(3), 264-289. 
Scott, W. R. 2001. Institutions and Organizations (2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. 
Scott, W. R. (2010). Reflections: The past and future of research on institutions and institutional change. 
Journal of Change Management, 10(1), 5-21. 
Smith, W. K., & Besharov, M. L. (2019). Bowing before dual gods: How structured flexibility sustains 
organizational hybridity. Administrative Science Quarterly, 64(1), 1-44. 
Snihur, Y., & Wiklund, J. (2019). Searching for innovation: Product, process, and business model innovations 
and search behavior in established firms. Long Range Planning, 52(3), 305-325. 
Stål, H. I., & Corvellec, H. (2018). A decoupling perspective on circular business model implementation: 
Illustrations from Swedish apparel. Journal of Cleaner Production, 171, 630-643.  
Strauss, A., & Corbin, J. M. (1997). Grounded theory in practice. Sage. 
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a “Sustainability Business Model.” Organization & 
Environment, 21(2), 103–127. 
Tracey, P., Phillips, N., & Jarvis, O. (2011). Bridging institutional entrepreneurship and the creation of new 
organizational forms: A multilevel model. Organization Science, 22(1), 60-80. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
280 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Ocasio, W., & Thornton, P. H. (1999). Institutional logics and the historical contingency of power in 
organizations: Executive succession in the higher education publishing industry, 1958-1990. American Journal 
of Sociology, 105(3), 801-843.  
Vaskelainen, T., & Münzel, K. (2018). The effect of institutional logics on business model development in the 
sharing economy: The case of German carsharing services. Academy of Management Discoveries, 4(3), 273-
293. 
Wooten, M., & Hoffman, A. J. (2008). Organizational fields: Past, present and future. The Sage Handbook of 
Organizational Institutionalism, 1, 131-147. 
Yin, R. K. (2003). Case study research: Design and Methods. SAGE Publications. 
York, J. G., Hargrave, T. J., & Pacheco, D. F. (2016). Converging winds: Logic hybridization in the Colorado wind 
energy field. Academy of Management Journal, 59(2), 579-610. 
York, J. G., O'Neil, I., & Sarasvathy, S. D. (2016). Exploring environmental entrepreneurship: Identity coupling, 
venture goals, and stakeholder incentives. Journal of Management Studies. 
Zietsma, C., Groenewegen, P., Logue, D. M., & Hinings, C. R. (2017). Field or Fields? Building the Scaffolding 
for Cumulation of Research on Institutional Fields. Academy of Management Annals, 11(1), 391–450.  
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
281 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Proliferating circularity efforts 
 
Coordinating multi-value creation in multi-actor 
contexts 
 
Niels Faber1,2, 3,*, Peter A.J. Bootsma3, Bartjan Pennink1 
 
1University of Groningen, The Netherlands; 2Hanze University of 
Applied Sciences, The Netherlands; 3Noorden Duurzaam association, 
The Netherlands 
 
*n.r.faber@rug.nl 
Abstract 
In this paper, we highlight the growing urgency of sustainability transitions in general and circularity 
transitions in particular, which is hardly taking shape in practice. We explore new pathways to 
accelerate such transition, focusing on a regional scale. We frame the lack of change as a multi-
faceted, wicked, problem or organisation. Two specific aspects of increasing complexity are 
explored: extension of the value set taken into consideration by actors, and expansion of actor 
types involved. Our value-actor matrix that illustrates this two-dimensional increase of complexity 
and points to societal coordination as the main problem of circularity transitions. We define four 
criteria for new coordination models: integration of top-down and bottom-up efforts, scalability 
from local to global, diplomacy between ideological and sectoral coordination and intuitiveness for 
rapid proliferation. We use these to analyse five cases, leading to the identification of a common 
cause of the lack of change. Next, the concept of task democracy is explored, attempting to fix the 
cause and customise it for a circular economy. The resulting framework takes shape in an open-
source manifesto for product councils, on local and regional scales. This research takes large and 
sometimes speculative steps and the result is largely untested. Yet it shows one pathway to 
acceleration, which may inspire further research. 
Keywords 
Circular economy, multi-value creation, sustainable regional development, task democracy, value-
actor matrix 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
282 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Introduction 
To many of us, a circular economy is the ideal of keeping precious or harmful materials in endless 
recycling, thus preventing waste and emissions, and preserving scarce natural resources (in line 
with e.g., Stahel, 1982). This concept has been studied from many viewpoints, ranging from 
technology and product design (e.g., Braungart and McDonough, 2002), via business models and 
business strategy (e.g., Jonker and Faber, 2021) to circular economy policy (e.g. European 
Parliament, 2015) and the UN sustainable development goals (UN, 2015). In all these approaches it 
becomes clear that the problem of realising a circular economy is a problem in which many actors 
are involved; it is a societal multi-actor problem. In this paper, we focus on the intermediate 
(regional) level, where industry, consumers and government meet each other and where joint 
action can be taken. It is at this level we want to find out which factors contribute to sustainable 
development. We perceive sustainable regional development as creating economic, ecological and 
social value, for and by regional actors (e.g., Jovovic, Draskovic, Delibasic, and Jovovic, 2017). 
We consider the issues of a circular economy and sustainable development as two sides of the same 
coin. While in practice, academia, and governmental arenas the two topics are commonly debated 
in separate discourses (Jonker and Faber, 2021), they have more in common than they differ. A 
circular economy principally focuses on organising value preservation, thus minimising the use of 
natural resources, and eliminating the concept of waste (Stahel, 1982). The ambition of minimising 
environmental impact aligns with early calls for sustainable development (e.g., Meadows, 
Meadows, Randers, and Behrens, 1972) and more recent stipulations of the safe operating space 
for humanity (Rockström, Steffen, Noone, Persson, Chaplin, et al., 2009). Consequently, we switch 
back and forth between both concepts of sustainable development and circular economy 
throughout this paper. Next to their common roots and objectives, this became inevitable as we 
focus on societal coordination of circular economy. This is a matter of political choice, which 
inherently interweaves the two issues. 
The urgency of sustainable development in general, is more than evident, regarding the increasing 
number of and deepening of global crises. Taking action on this is rapidly developing from optional 
to existential, especially for hunger, climate change and biodiversity (IPCC, 2022). However, global 
response over the past decades has been inadequate. For circular economy too, the pressure is on. 
Global progress on SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production) is measured as negative at 
-0.4% since 2015, while most other SDGs have small positive index scores (Sachs et al., 2021). In 
The Netherlands, only limited progress is shown during the past decade, while the objective is to 
reach a fully circular economy by 2050 (Planbureau voor de Leefomgeving, 2021). Even a modest 
measure like introducing a recycling deposit on small PET bottles took 20 years (Ministerie van 
Infrastructuur en Waterstaat, 2020). Other problematic examples include plastics recycling, 
recycling of chemically bonded materials, battery recycling, e-waste and nuclear waste. In all of 
these examples, we see a wider array of actors involved, besides producer and consumer, and we 
see that in trying to realize something circular not just the national or local government is involved. 
The pattern that unfolds shows that circularity is a multi-level and multi-actor topic, riddled with 
technological challenges and conflicts of interest. Even in early stages, when low hanging fruit is 
abundant, society is mostly unable to get up to speed with transitions towards circularity. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
283 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
This paper aims to analyse this dramatic lack of progress and to identify strategies that may help to 
drastically speed up circularity everywhere. We do not consider political feasibility or economic 
realism yet, but start from the necessary future result and work our way back to see what would 
be needed, postponing the reality check until we arrive at current options. Our interest is exploring 
the whole field of options, including if needed uncharted territories, and finding new pathways for 
circular economy policies. 
The problem of inadequate global urgency response can be seen as a wicked problem (Conklin, 
2003; Rittel and Webber, 1973). This implies that a repair plan, even if it would work, has a limited 
chance of getting accepted. In other words, both the problem and the solutions are political issues. 
Given the urgency, however, the academic research community cannot limit itself to reductionism, 
to solving partial problems in technology or legislation in the hope this will contribute to fixing the 
whole thing. Even presenting holistic models and leaving decision-making to politics will not do. 
More is needed, particularly concerning societal coordination and political problem-solving. To start 
with, we need an overarching perspective to see all facets, find blind spots and hidden problems 
and identify new connections and new synergies. 
The daunting complexity of coordinating circularity 
efforts 
What is complex and dynamic in a circular economy? 
Classified as a wicked problem (Jonker and Faber, 2021), the complexities and dynamics of a circular 
economy span a varied array of aspects. To start with technology, we observe a wide range of 
product families that needs to be circular. This includes every manufactured object in our daily lives. 
Many products are complex in themselves, consisting of assembled parts or complex mixtures or 
processed materials. The components and parts may originate from everywhere on the globe and 
may travel long distances. Also, products change all the time, driven by innovation, fashion or 
competition. 
Next, we identify the complexity of manufacturing, which is done by countless businesses in 
competitive markets. Entrepreneurs want to stay in business and have more to think of than 
circularity alone. Standardisation, for instance, can be desirable for circularity but does not 
necessarily match each company’s strategy. Intellectual property and business data need to be 
protected, while circularity demands chain transparency and life cycle analysis (Lokesh, Matharu, 
Kookos, Ladakis, et al., 2020). The natural entrepreneurial reflex to fend off competitors while 
winning the customer makes eager to lower costs. This fosters a tendency to externalise costs, for 
instance by not bothering about environmental effects. This way, capitalist ownership of businesses 
has since long led to short-sightedness (e.g., Mintzberg, 2015), resulting in privatising profits while 
socialising costs (Coase, 1960). 
Furthermore, there is the complexity of government regulation of dynamic markets. Countries use 
their political system to regulate their economy. This may include circularity and transitions (e.g., 
Ministerie van Infrastructuur en Milieu, 2016). Transition, in turn, needs a level playing field, which 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
284 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
requires more regulation, preferably internationally. An example is the effort of the European 
Parliament to establish consumer rights to repair (European Parliament, 2022). Moreover, 
governments must deal with geopolitical issues, conflicts and sanctions, circumstances that often 
outweigh the urgency of circularity. 
The demand side of markets has complexities of its own. Theoretically, demand is a dominant 
market power and decides what is manufactured. However, in practice, consumers are sensitive to 
marketing efforts and fashion and are easily overrun by supply push when they are not or weakly 
united. Government regulation and product certification for fair trade, product safety and 
circularity are needed to maintain the balance. 
Finally, knowledge about circularity needs to be developed and transferred, which asks for diffusion 
in curricula. So far, sustainable development has reached primary and secondary education (Faber, 
van der Gaast, Gelderblom, de Graaf, et al., 2017), but in technical education, industrial design, and 
especially business and economics education, progress towards integration seems to be slow. 
In summary, the complexity of a circular economy lies not just in its economical or technological 
aspects. It is also embedded in the involvement of all of society and in numerous delicate balances 
of interests in which the need for circularity is just one force, and in many cases not the most 
powerful.  
Changing value systems add more complexity  
Apart from the complexity of the economy and the strong values of innovation and growth, there 
is the growing weight and influence of social and ecological values, fuelled by growing awareness 
of the devastating consequences of ongoing growth in a confined system (Meadows, Meadows, 
Randers, and Behrens, 1972; Meadows, Meadows, and Randers, 1992; Meadows, Randers, and 
Meadows, 2005). Shifting values have already influenced how we measure progress, as can be seen 
in the set of SDG indicators and common critiques on GDP as an indicator of prosperity (van den 
Bergh, 2009). On the other hand, social, ecological and economical capital are uncomparable and 
have no common currency. Therefore, societies generally revert to trading in the most immediate 
currency, which is financial. 
For instance, Stimson, Stough and Roberts (2006) provide a comprehensive understanding of 
regional development, explaining the main components and their dynamics, and providing various 
tools to intervene. However, they measure development mostly in growth of economic production. 
The same pattern is visible in political research, where conciliating social, ecological and economic 
development is seen as a challenge for politics and government, requiring participation of civil 
society and citizens (e.g., While, Jonas, and Gibbs, 2010). But here too we observe that regional 
development almost exclusively translates to economic-financial indicators. In other words, 
sustainable development is commonly measured and treated as a one-dimensional issue in both 
economic and political arenas, while sustainability by nature is a multi-value phenomenon. This is 
complicated further through the variety of actors involved, who adhere to a wide variety of values. 
In the next section, we suggest a means to visualise and reduce this complexity, developing a 
conceptual lens that enables the simultaneous identification of regional actors and their values. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
285 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
A value-actor matrix 
As indicated, sustainability (and circularity) is a matter not just for companies or governments, nor 
of single values. Instead, it brings to the fore a multidimensional perspective on development. In 
one dimension, the number and type of involved groups are expanding from market players and 
government to all actors of society. Simultaneously, environmental, social, and economic values 
together form a new playing field, each bringing forth their complexities and interdependencies 
between them. The need to accommodate multiple, different actors in realising their values 
politicises the issue of sustainability. We visualise this in a ‘value-actor matrix’ (Figure 1), where the 
area of concern has expanded in two directions. 
 
Figure 1 Value-actor matrix 
The presented matrix captures the complexity of sustainable development in social contexts. 
Firstly, the actor dimension identifies the various segments of this context. We discern the 
segments of (1) scientists, (2) citizens, (3) administration, (4) businesses, and (5) societal provisions: 
education, health care, sports, culture, and life view (Bootsma, 2021). Each segment forms a specific 
intersection of societal actors, stipulating their roles and activities. The actor dimension intends to 
reduce societal complexity, bringing conceptual order to the increasing connectivity between 
societal actors. Secondly, the value dimension identifies the three values that span sustainable 
development: environmental, social, and economic (e.g., Elkington, 1999; WCED, 1987). Together, 
both dimensions give shape to an actor-value matrix that on the one hand provides a societal 
segmentation that enables us to identify relevant regional actors. On the other hand, it allows for 
a more in-depth understanding and identification of the values connected to each of the actors. In 
this way, we argue that the value-actor matrix allows us to harness some of the complexities that 
emerge from the common and collective strive for sustainable development. This stands in stark 
contrast to the traditional, single actor (business) and single value (economic) orientation on 
regional development we have been accustomed to (Stimson et al., 2006). A consequence of this 
observation is that the shift to a multi-actor and multi-value approach to development will no 
longer allow it to be managed traditionally. This calls for a new paradigm of understanding and 
coordination across actors and values. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
286 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Challenges to a circular economy  
We now have a basic understanding of the two-dimensional increase of complexity of sustainable 
development and circular economy, and the objective of understanding and coordinating across 
actors and values. Given the urgencies, any new framework for coordination will need to proliferate 
at a significant speed. This implies that, apart from political will and decision making, it should in 
itself be easily deployed across scale levels and it should easily ‘hype’ horizontally between areas. 
To achieve this, the coordination concept needs to be multi-value and multi-actor and integrative, 
scalable, diplomatic and intuitive. 
Integration is about joining top-down and bottom-up efforts. To realise the intended integration, 
bottom-up efforts need to be expansive: including both more actor types and more value types. For 
instance, a regional circularity initiative of a business branch organisation should not only involve 
the supply side but the demand side as well. Likewise, top-down efforts should be more 
comprehensive: taking the full set of actors and values into account, from the onset. An example 
would be a government programme for circularity with a democratic steering committee 
representing all sectors of society. Without coordination, both expansive bottom-up efforts and 
comprehensive top-down efforts will run into a multiplication of the number of actors and interests 
involved. The coordination concept needs to recognise this and should protect efforts from 
unrealistic ambitions. The concept should also nudge bottom-up and top-down efforts to support 
each other, e.g., by inviting both effort types to the same table. 
Scalability implies that the value-actor matrix itself needs to be scalable. This already holds for the 
‘people, planet, profit’ value set, which is being referred to in countless local initiatives as well as 
globally in UN goals and policies. Scalability also asks for connectivity with peers, both horizontally 
in neighbouring areas and vertically in larger and smaller areas. 
Diplomacy in coordination between bottom-up and top-down efforts is crucial. The top-down 
democratic government already is a delicate balancing act between ideological perspectives. 
Adding bottom-up initiatives complicates the play further as bottom-up chiefly organises on a 
sectoral basis, around social groups such as citizens, farmers, or industry. At meeting points, this 
incompatibility may yield friction. An example is the widespread criticism of national politicians 
regarding sectoral agreements (Koole, 2019). In the same spirit, sectoral representation often is 
negatively framed as self-interest, while ideological parties are seen as protectors of common 
interest (Grant, 2020). Another challenge in coordinating top-down and bottom-up efforts is 
decreased trust in democracy. Both entrepreneurs and bottom-up activists often prefer 
autonomous peer projects, above engagement in government programmes. An example is the rise 
of cooperatives. So, new concepts for coordination of circular economy transitions need to 
reconcile not only top-down and bottom-up efforts and scale differences, but also the ideological 
and the sectoral dimension of organising transitions.  
These already complex requirements lead to one more criterion for coordination frameworks, 
which is that they need to be intuitive. While they call for a new mindset, an article, webinar or 
lecture should be sufficient to transfer the big idea. If this level of portability can be achieved, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
287 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
adding small scale examples and visionary leadership might be sufficient to trigger rapid 
proliferation. 
In short, for the sake of rapid proliferation, new coordination models for circular economy need to 
be multi-value and multi-actor, and need to fulfil the four requirements of (1) integration between 
top-down and bottom-up efforts, (2) scalability from local to global, (3) diplomacy between 
ideological and sectoral coordination and (4) align with the intuitiveness of the parties involved. 
Examples of current bottom-up and top-down efforts for 
circularity 
To illustrate the way top-down and bottom-up initiatives unfold, we briefly touch upon some 
examples, revolving around the need for coordination. We present five cases of mixed bottom-up 
and top-down efforts for circularity and investigate to what extent coordination is multi-value, 
multi-actor, integrative, scalable, diplomatic and intuitive. 
Case: Appingedam 
(1) In the Dutch city of Appingedam, local entrepreneurs devised a plan to revitalize the local 
economy and spur a wider regional development (Pennink and Gerrits, 2021). Their first step was 
to stimulate local customers to visit their shops more often, making them more aware of their 
products and attracting them to shop, optionally winning a prize. The introduced loyalty card idea 
was a starting point in creating shared value between local entrepreneurs and local consumers. The 
principal objective of this loyalty card has been to create a loyal group of returning customers for 
local retailers. Currently, the card’s potential application for a wider array of uses is explored, 
including the incorporation of other values besides financial benefits. One direction is a possible 
extension of the loyalty card to enable shared value creation between local citizens and local NGOs. 
The underlying rationale for these explorations is to gain further insight into how sustainable 
regional development may take shape. Preliminary analysis shows how specific actors and values 
(dis)connect. As the loyalty card started as a top-down approach the extensions into other 
dimensions of shared values have to be discussed further with NGOs and local citizens. This opens 
the possibility to realise a bottom-up effort as well. The question that remains unanswered as of 
yet is how these ideas and actions regarding shared value creation around the loyalty card, involving 
a wide range of local actors, will be coordinated. 
The Appingedam effort started as a bottom-up, business economic effort. Then the value set was 
expanded, and thereafter the actor set. While several actor groups are mentioned, coordination 
seems absent. There is some integration, however, as there is contact between bottom-up 
(entrepreneurs) and top-down (politicians). On the other hand, the critical note on politicians 
signifies the absence of diplomacy. Scalability is no factor here. A loyalty card can be considered an 
intuitive aid in achieving coordination. 
Case: Energy cooperatives 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
288 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
(2) Our second example concerns a study of six energy cooperatives in the Netherlands and Belgium 
and illustrates a bottom-up effort towards regional development (Pennink and Gerrits, 2021). This 
study shows that cooperatives may be quite successful in realizing green energy solutions on a 
regional scale, building on a value set that includes economic, social and environmental values. 
Their constituency not only includes homeowners and businesses within the region but also outside 
actors. It appears that more recently established cooperatives have a more complete value set and 
a larger working area. Older cooperatives are more locally focused.  
Similar to the previous example, energy cooperatives started as bottom-up, but now eventually 
with a fully expanded value set and a partially extended actor set. Interesting is that value set 
expansion correlates with territorial expansion. A limitation of cooperatives is their entrepreneurial 
character. In practice, not all perspectives of society are included. Missing actors are scientists, 
administration and societal provisions. The cooperatives focus and rely on the government and 
others for additional coordination. This illustrates some of the possible diplomatic tensions 
between the bottom-up (the initiatives of cooperatives) and the top-down setting for all kinds of 
regulations related to the production and delivery of energy as stipulated in government 
regulations. 
Case: RIS3 Strategies 
(3) Following the 2008 financial crisis, the EU developed the National/Regional Research and 
Innovation Strategies for Smart Specialisation (RIS3 strategies). A popular class of models for 
implementing RIS3 is the helix family, evolving from triple to quadruple and quintuple variants. 
Despite this shift from technological to social innovation and despite their growing emphasis on 
citizen participation and civil society, there is limited progress in involving citizen groups (Roman, 
Varga, Cvijanivić, and Reid, 2020).  
While strengthening democracy is stressed, the helix models take the nature of government and 
political decision making as a given. Also, citizen participation seems to be mostly about awareness 
and involvement in decision making and does not pose a responsibility or task in e.g., self-organising 
to adjust lifestyles or raising kids with sustainability values.  
Case: Concrete recycling 
An early example of a circularity campaign in the municipality of Groningen, the Netherlands, was 
about circular concrete for building purposes. The project was triggered by a concrete recycling 
company on one side of a canal, unable to supply to the concrete plant on the other side of the 
canal. They complained that all recycled concrete was ordered by road constructors, which in their 
view was downcycling valuable building material. Designing a campaign resulted after two years of 
delays in a covenant, stating promises by local government and supply and demand actors, to keep 
concrete from demolition clean and reuse it as an ingredient of fresh concrete. The regional 
concrete knowledge centre participated in the project to monitor concrete quality (Vereniging 
Noorden Duurzaam, 2013). The covenant resulted in a near 20% drop in gravel import to the 
municipality for a year or two. Eventually, gravel suppliers outside the municipality lowered their 
prices to counter their decreasing turnover, in which they succeeded. However, in the meantime, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
289 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the concept of a ‘concrete chain table’ was copied to three provinces and was developed 
independently in seven cities throughout the Netherlands. Most tables still exist and started many 
new efforts for concrete circularity. 
The concrete recycling effort started bottom-up with a partially expanded value set, without a social 
component. The actor set was almost complete, only education was missing. As local government 
was involved and an industry-wide covenant was reached, this effort can be considered both 
bottom-up and top-down. The covenant was an intuitive coordination mechanism, together with 
process guidance provided by Noorden Duurzaam’s predecessor. This case shows that the 
combination of integrative, scalable and intuitive coordination, even when acceptance initially is 
low, may correlate with fast proliferation.  
Case: Food council 
In the USA, Canada, the UK and Germany, many food councils are active. Following a congress about 
network building between food councils, a guide was published on how to set up such a council, 
calling for food democracy and systemic coordination (Thurn, Oertel, and Pohl, 2018). Research in 
Luxembourg showed that people see the creation of a democratic Food policy council as an 
opportunity for positive developments toward a sustainable and equitable food system transition 
(Pax and Reckinger, 2022). The researchers suggest forming a national Food policy council as a 
platform for independent cooperation among equal partners from the three sectors of 
Luxembourg’s food system: policy and administration, research and civil society; production, 
transformation, gastronomy, and trade. This idea was picked up by government and has been 
included in a draft policy and law texts. Both the German and the Luxembourg research show that 
food councils are viable and are gaining momentum.  
Similar to the concrete chain tables, food councils are integrative and intuitive meeting points of 
top-down and bottom-up efforts. The coordination features a fully expanded value set (‘sustainable 
and equitable’) and a complete actor set as well, although education involvement is not mentioned. 
Scalability and proliferation are demonstrated by the idea of a national food council.  
Conclusion: circularity requires new coordination on a societal 
scale  
Both examples shed some light on a context in which the strive to realise sustainable regional 
development is visible. However, they also highlight that this strive is hampered by a lack of 
coordination across (1) multiple actors operating at different levels of society, and (2) multiple 
values simultaneously. Current coordination structures either are unable to handle the complexities 
that come along with addressing multiple values or do not allow for coordination across a variety 
of actors.  
We have no pretensions that the set of examples is representative of all efforts for a circular 
economy. However, we argue that they bring to the fore sufficient variation in terms of the criteria 
set. They are more and less multi-value, multi-actor, integrative, scalable, diplomatic and intuitive. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
290 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
At first sight, there even seems to be a positive correlation between the fulfilment of the criteria 
and transition progress or impact. This gives some hope that the chosen criteria may predict success 
or even guide us to successful coordination methods. On the other hand, none of the examples 
shows rapid vertical deployment or hyped horizontal proliferation, even when the effort would get 
high marks in the assessment. Could there be a common cause? That is what we will look out for in 
the next section. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
291 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Exploring task democracy as a coordination strategy 
The problem of liberal democracy 
We are on a search for new pathways to drastically speed up circularity. Thus far we avoided the 
complexity trap caused by the expansion of values and actors. We concluded that conjunction is 
needed between bottom-up initiatives and a new type of society level coordination. In this section, 
we concentrate on coordination. We investigate the task democracy concept that is being 
developed by the Noorden Duurzaam association (Bootsma, 2022) 5 . Before presenting this 
approach, we elaborate on why current political arenas and the decision-making taking place within 
may chiefly be unfit to initiate and guide us through the transition towards a sustainable society. 
About half of the world’s countries are electoral or liberal democracies (Roser and Herre, 2013). 
These countries have parliaments where political parties establish or control government. During 
elections, these parties compete for seats by seducing voters with their ideas. The seduction itself 
is done by making attractive promises and asking for as few sacrifices as possible to be trustworthy. 
This is smart because policy promises are generally the least costly way for parties to secure 
electoral support (Strom, 1990). Parties differ in the kind of promises made and sacrifices asked so 
voters have a real choice. All is well as long as promises made will pay off to us, within the next 
term or the foreseeable future. Things get different when they do not, for instance when sacrifices 
are asked for future generations, for ecosystems we cannot see or for people elsewhere on the 
planet. In those cases, imposing costs without a clear view of the pay-offs has the risk of losing 
votes. As a result, most or all parties are reluctant to ask for sacrifices for sustainability, even while 
sustainability is widely considered a core value. This collective bias creates a blind spot in societies. 
We consider our destructive lifestyle as normal and claim it as a right, while at the same time we 
are willing to turn down our energy consumption when democracy, another core value, is at stake 
at Europe’s borders. The difference: sustainability is about elsewhere and later; democracy is about 
here and now (see also de Geus, 2001). 
This indicates that ideological competition results in failing leadership for sustainability. Liberal 
and electoral democratic political systems tend to postpone necessary sustainability transitions 
until too late. As the behaviour of the system has not changed much during half a century of 
scientific warnings about dangerous climate change (e.g., IPCC, 2022), it probably will not fix itself; 
this is bad news. Some consolation is that other political systems are not doing any better. It seems 
that in our search for new pathways for circularity we can strikethrough ideological competition as 
 
5 The Noorden Duurzaam association is a regional think tank for sustainable development in the North of The 
Netherlands. Established in 2013, the association gradually expanded its field of interest from sustainable 
product design and circular economy into political transition management, coordination theory and 
experiments. The task democracy theory and concept is under active joint development by Noord Duurzaam 
and several governments, universities, NGO’s and consultancies in The Netherlands. Knowledge is shared as 
open source. Task democracy resembles the well-known helix models but has a different background and 
purpose. While helix models are innovation and business centred and are used to build collaboration 
networks, the task democracy model is transition and society centred and is intended for political 
collaboration to realise transition campaigns. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
292 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
a coordination mechanism, as it is a common cause of dangerous delays. Yet, do we have an 
alternative? 
An alternative way of coordinating 
Back in the 13th century, among the best places to be in Europe were the North of Italy and the 
coastal area of the Netherlands (Prak, 2018). Both areas had growing populations, emerging cities 
and prosperous economies. In the Netherlands, however, about every 15 years massive storms and 
floods would take heavy tolls. The ultimate response was building and maintaining dykes, by that 
time a project of unprecedented proportions. It required contributions from landowners in the area 
that needed protection. As all landowners had an obligation to maintain their piece of the dyke, all 
had access to the general assembly of their local water authority, where dyke wardens were 
elected, conflicts were settled and tasks were assigned. Division of tasks was a key to success. 
Farmers needed to keep their waterways clear. Villagers needed to help build dykes. Rich 
landowners, often citizens, had to pay for the project (Soens, 2006). In coordinating these efforts, 
competition between the three actor groups was of no use, as eliminating one would jeopardise 
the undertaking. Mutual dependency, collaboration and task division were more important. 
Eventually, this resulted in democratic water authorities with boards consisting of actor sections 
having fixed seats, representing interest groups, or better: task groups. Elections were held within 
each sector. This coordination system is still in operation and has survived power shifts, turmoil and 
wars. Surprisingly, this type of democracy has no name. The water authorities in The Netherlands 
are referred to as ‘functional democracies’ but only to indicate they serve a specific public function, 
i.e., water management. The Noorden Duurzaam association reverse engineered and reconstructed 
this system to find out whether it is up to the existential threats of the 21st century, and named it 
‘task democracy’. 
The redesigned theory of task democracy consists of a sector model, a process model and a maturity 
model (Bootsma, 2022). The actor model holds five societal sectors collectively responsible for 
sustainable development: science, citizens, government, businesses and societal provisions. They 
each have indispensable, unique and non-transferable transition tasks, as indicated in Table 1. They 
coordinate their efforts in a task democratic board, council or chamber of parliament.  
Actor groups 
Sustainability transition tasks 
Scientists - in academia, NGOs, 
government, businesses or independent 
Measure economic, ecological and social capital, predict the 
future, identify development pathways 
Citizens - age groups, social classes, 
ethnical groups, professions, gender 
groups 
Collectively adjust lifestyle, raise new generations with 
sustainability values  
Administration - parliaments, 
government, authorities, agencies, 
judicature 
Forbid or tax what is unsustainable, encourage and subsidise 
what is sustainable, ensure a level playing field 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
293 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Businesses – self-employed, SME, 
business parks, branch associations, big 
business, multinationals 
Innovate products, business models and organisation 
models for sustainability impact 
Societal provisions - health care, 
education, sports, culture, life view 
Inspire people, qualify students, build and connect 
communities, and include everyone. 
Table 1 Task democratic sector model 
Mutual dependency, in-transferability of tasks and thus lack of internal competition create equality 
between the actor groups. Only joint effort will yield results. To strengthen and secure this basis for 
solidarity and collaboration, the five actor groups must have equal rights in a task democratic board 
or assembly. Therefore, even when the groups would have unequal numbers of representatives, 
the groups have equal voting power. Any other ratio would create continuous debate and would 
be detrimental to solidarity, ownership and willingness to participate and contribute. 
A task democratic parliament or board has, according to a cyclic process model, three main tasks. 
The first is prioritising sustainability issues by voting, to set an agenda. Second is developing and 
realising society-wide campaigns, in which each sector mobilises its members and in which sectors 
compensate each other rather than compromise the shared objective. Third is collecting data to be 
able to adjust and provide input for agenda setting and campaign design. 
Task democracy may be applied small scale in for instance foundations, cooperatives and district 
councils. On a larger scale, it may be used as a design pattern for an additional permanent chamber 
of the municipal or province council or national parliament. This would create a new duality: 
ideological democratic chambers focusing on here and now matters; task democratic chambers 
preparing campaigns for elsewhere and later. The impact of this duality may be similar to that of 
the recent implementation of citizen fora in e.g. Ireland, where a citizen forum paved the way for 
new legislation (Hendriks, Jacobs, and Michels, 2021). 
Results so far 
Roleplay experiments have shown the model may evoke a change of attitude among participants. 
In the absence of ideological competition, and given sectoral interdependence, task division and 
collaboration appear to emerge more naturally. Currently, several experiments are designed, 
including applications for local circular economy and for municipal districts, where council 
structures are not prescribed by legislation. Proposals, however, meet resistance as well: council 
members may fear a loss of power when more sectors are involved; local politicians may hesitate 
to experiment with the unknown; civil servants may compare stronger district democracy with 
easier managing bilateral relations. 
Current proposals for getting started with task democracy involve debate, role play, simulation and 
offline testing on real cases. Other options are writing up statutes including meeting rules, 
developing formal relations with other institutes, appointing an independent chairperson, installing 
a core team or presidency, organising internal and external communication, et cetera.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
294 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
To summarise, task democracy is an attempt at an integrated governance approach for sustainable 
development, in an early stage of development. It builds on collaboration and task division, rather 
than competition. As a concept for coordination, it covers all of the value-actor matrix, involving 
actors from all societal sectors and inviting them to work on economic, social and ecological issues. 
The core question in our search for pathways, however, is whether it will help fix the common cause 
of the slow transition to circularity. In the next section, we explore this. 
Towards a new framework: “Task democracy” for 
regional circular economy 
In this section, we customise the theory of task democracy for use in circular economy transitions, 
with fast proliferation in mind. That may well turn out to be overly ambitious, but since urgencies 
make rapid change important, the fast track is worth exploring. 
The circular economy framework we want to construct from the task democracy theory needs to 
be, following the criteria set above, integrative, scalable, diplomatic and intuitive. We discuss these 
requirements separately. 
Integration of bottom-up and top-down efforts in the task democracy theory can be established, 
among other factors, during the collective design of transition campaigns. To illustrate this, we 
present a brainstorm canvas, see Figure 1. The brainstorm of a task democratic campaign design 
team, consisting of participants from five sectors, starts with an objective (top left corner), shared 
values (centre) and a territorial domain (top right corner). Then, in three steps the campaign is 
designed. At first, actors are written down outside the coloured circle. Second, their possible 
bottom-up campaign contributions are written down inside the circle. Third, arrows are drawn to 
indicate supportive relations between contributions. Working this way, the team sees synergy 
emerging, in a process that creates ownership. Following the brainstorm, the campaign design is 
cleaned up and presented by sector representatives to their constituency, to get feedback and 
support. Once the design has stabilised the campaign can be kicked off. At Noorden Duurzaam, this 
process was developed for circularity projects in the first place. We include it in the framework as 
it is. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
295 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 2 Task democratic brainstorm canvas 
Scalability in circular product chain coordination needs special attention, as in a globalised 
economy, larger geographical scales often include more sections of product chains. For instance: 
on a local scale, often retail and consumers are found; on a regional scale, logistics and recycling 
may be added; on a larger scale wholesale and manufacturing can come into play; globally often 
mineral resources join in. A framework for the coordination of circularity can therefore not require 
all chain sections to be present or active at all levels. In customising the task democracy model, this 
means that filling in the five-sector model is not circumstantial, not conceptual. In a municipality, 
for instance, a product chain may involve (1) local experts, (2) a local consumer group, (3) the 
municipality, (4) a product family committee of the local business network, (5) the collective of local 
education.  
We used the term diplomacy to indicate reconciliation of the ideological and sectoral dimensions 
in organising transitions. While this is a central matter in the all-encompassing concept of 
sustainable development, it is slightly less complex in a circular economy, which has sectoral 
division lines by nature, just like task democracy. Customising task democracy for a circular 
economy is therefore pretty straightforward. On the other hand, sectoral agreements may, as we 
saw, have trouble getting accepted in politics. Here, the added value of task democracy is that it 
transforms product chains from business centred phenomena to society-wide phenomena, through 
an actor model that guarantees equal influence to science, citizens, administration, businesses and 
societal provisions. Solid democracy brings organised product chains on par with parliaments and 
governments of their scale, where tax money is converted into transition budgets and where 
legislation comes from.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
296 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
From the ingredients we have seen so far, a new and hopefully intuitive framework for a circular 
economy can be constructed. The framework is presented below in the shape of a manifesto, a set 
of statements that may be squeezed into a one-page table for overview and easy access. The set is 
structured as a narrative and starts with challenges, objectives and values, runs through actors and 
organisation, and arrives via process and methods at practical aspects of institutionalising. 
Task democratic circular economy manifesto 
Global challenge 
Mankind faces existential threats: massive disruption of society as a result of 
climate change, pollution, resource depletion and injustice. 
Global goals 
The UN calls for sustainable development, which is SDG 12 (Sustainable 
Consumption And Production) includes a circular economy. Taking action is 
urgent. 
Product chain 
In this manifesto we consider the product family of _____________, 
[Fill in a product family. On local level, choose from food, clothing, cosmetics, 
housing, electronics, etc. On regional and higer levels, focus may be on smaller 
product groups, like plastics, or plastics families] 
Administrative 
territory 
in the administrative territory ___________________________.  
[Fill in your area here, in a local to global range]. 
Actor groups 
We are actors in this product chain: scientists, citizens, administrators, 
businesses and societal provisions. We have the following indispensable, unique 
and non-transferable transition tasks in organising necessary transitions: 
Scientists 
In academia, NGOs, government, 
businesses or independent. 
We measure economic, ecological and 
social capital, predict the future, and 
identify development pathways. 
Citizens 
Age groups, social classes, 
ethnical groups, professions, and 
gender groups. 
We collectively adjust lifestyle and raise 
new generations with sustainability values. 
Administration 
Parliaments, government, 
authorities, agencies, judicature. 
We forbid or tax what is unsustainable, 
encourage and subsidise what is 
sustainable, and ensure a level playing 
field. 
Businesses 
Self-employed, SME, business 
parks, branch associations, big 
business, multinationals 
We innovate products, business models 
and organisation models for sustainability 
impact. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
297 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Societal provisions 
Health care, education, sports, 
culture, life view. 
We inspire people, qualify students, build 
and connect communities, and include 
everyone. 
Coordination 
In these tasks, we as actor groups are mutually dependent. We want to 
coordinate our efforts, building on shared values of sustainability, democracy 
and solidarity. 
Product council 
Together, we establish a permanent democratic product council in which our 
five actor groups have equal voting power. Each group appoints elected 
representatives. The council has an independent chairperson. Meetings and 
archives are open to the public and the press.  
Organisation 
The council is governed by a statute that details this manifesto and establishes a 
presidency, a secretariat and internal rulings. 
Core tasks 
The council has three core tasks: democratically prioritising sustainability issues 
of our product chain; organising society-wide transition campaigns in our 
administrative area, and collecting and sharing data to learn and adjust. 
Transition method 
The council’s main output is transition campaigns for circularity and 
sustainability in our product chain, designed by campaign teams in which our 
five actor groups participate. The teams brainstorm to find synergy in 
combining voluntary actor group contributions, including government funding. 
Each actor group gathers feedback on campaign plans from their constituency 
and asks for support and participation. Campaigns are kicked off publicly and 
are monitored by the council. 
Campaign topics 
Campaigns may focus on for instance fundamental and applied research, public 
awareness of the need for circularity, chain transparency, consumer self-
organisation, level playing field, standardisation, legislation and taxes, circular 
product and process design, recycling logistics, circular business models, 
integration in education curricula. 
Connectivity and 
proliferation 
The council is supported by a peer council in the encompassing area, supports 
peer councils in sub-area and maintains contacts with peer councils in 
neighbouring areas. If peer councils are absent, the council may help initiate 
these. 
Council status 
The council asks for recognition by the highest democratic institution of our 
administrative area - being one of five founders of the council. The recognition 
should entitle to government facilitation of the council and sharing of 
administrative information. 
Finance 
The council has an organisation budget and a transition budget. Both budgets 
are fed by voluntary contributions from the five actor groups, depending on 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
298 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
their carrying capacity. In absence of a transition budget, transition campaigns 
seek their funding from the five actor groups.  
Origin 
This manifesto is derived from the Task democratic circular economy manifesto 
v1.0, 2022, published at the NBM2022 congress in Rome. Reuse is allowed and 
advised, under a CC-BY-SA license. 
Table 2 Manifesto for regional circular economy policy 
Conclusions and new things to learn 
The limitations: big steps, little research, political neutral? 
In this paper, we highlighted the growing urgency of sustainability transitions in general and 
circularity transitions in particular. In search of new pathways, we analysed the lack of change as a 
wicked problem. We presented a value-actor matrix that illustrates a two-dimensional increase in 
complexity. That made us see societal coordination as the main problem of circularity transitions. 
We defined four criteria for new coordination models: integration, scalability, diplomacy and 
intuitiveness. Using these to review several cases brought up a common cause of the lack of change. 
Next, we investigated a potential coordination model to resolve the issue of societal coordination: 
the theory of task democracy. We customised it for a circular economy, in the shape of an open-
source manifesto. 
While this approach produces a thinkable pathway, it has quite a few limitations. We have taken 
big steps to arrive at a conceptualisation that can be tested and falsified or improved in practice. 
The intermediate assumptions, like the four criteria and the task democracy theory, are arguably 
speculative and provide no ground for hard conclusions yet. Still, given the urgency of sustainability, 
shortcuts to experimenting may help detect and denounce alternative pathways for transition, thus 
accelerating knowledge development and ultimately creating necessary change. 
Further research could fill in on assumptions in this paper. These include lack of change, which 
needs more academic and public attention; the value-actor matrix; the intermediate conclusion 
that coordination is the main problem; the four criteria for societal coordination of circularity; the 
role of small wins and visionary leadership; the task democracy theory and finally the translation 
into a working model for product chain councils. We invite researchers, policymakers and 
practitioners to get in touch. 
Disclaimer 
This paper partly builds on work in progress on the task democracy concept, developed by the 
Noorden Duurzaam association, a Dutch non-profit NGO. This concept is developed as an open-
source concept and may be used freely under the Creative Commons 4.0 license CC-BY-SA. Peter 
Bootsma and Niels Faber, both authors of this paper, are board members of the Noorden Duurzaam 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
299 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
association. Board membership of Noorden Duurzaam is an unpaid position. None of the authors 
received any payment or rewards for the creation of this work. 
References 
Bergh, J. C. J. M. van den. (2009). The GDP paradox. Journal of Economic Psychology, 30(2), 117–135. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joep.2008.12.001 
Bootsma, 
P. 
A. 
J. 
(2021). 
Circulaire 
consumenten. 
Groene 
Burgemeester. 
https://www.groeneburgemeester.nl/circulaire-consumenten/ 
Bootsma, 
P. 
A. 
J. 
(2022). 
Taakdemocratie. 
Vereniging 
Noorden 
Duurzaam. 
https://www.noordenduurzaam.nl/taakdemocratie 
Coase, R. H. (1960). The problem of social cost. Journal of Law and Economics, 3, 1–44. 
Conklin, E. J. (2006). Wicked problems & social complexity. In Dialogue mapping: Building shared 
understanding of wicked problems. Wiley. http://www.cognexus.org/wpf/wickedproblems.pdf 
de Geus, M. (2001). Sustainability, Liberal Democracy, Liberalism. In J. Barry & M. Wissenburg (Eds.), 
Sustaining 
Liberal 
Democracy 
(pp. 
19–36). 
Palgrave 
Macmillan 
UK. 
https://doi.org/10.1057/9781403900791_2 
European Parliament. (2022a, March 3). Circular economy: Definition, importance and benefits. New 
European 
Parliament. 
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/economy/20151201STO05603/circular-economy-
definition-importance-and-benefits 
European Parliament. (2022b, March 16). Right to repair: MEPs set out their demands ahead of Commission’s 
proposal. 
New 
European 
Parliament. 
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-
room/20220309IPR25157/right-to-repair-meps-set-out-their-demands-ahead-of-commission-s-proposal 
Faber, N., van der Gaast, W., Gelderblom, L., de Graaf, L., Hofman, E., van Leeuwen, N., Siderius, K., & De 
Giorgio, M. (2017). Parels zonder ketting: Resultaten van de inventarisatie van cirulaire economie initiatieven 
in onderwijs en bedrijfsleven in Fryslân. JIN Climate and Sustainability. 
Grant, 
W. 
(2020). 
Lobbying: 
The 
dark 
side 
of 
politics. 
Manchester 
University 
Press. 
https://doi.org/10.7765/9781526153715 
Hendriks, F., Jacobs, K., & Michels, A. (2021). Nationale Burgerfora: Verkenning van nationale burgerfora als 
democratisch gereedschap (No. 21400739). Ministerie van Binnenlandse Zaken en Koninkrijksrelaties. 
https://www.rijksoverheid.nl/documenten/rapporten/2021/02/01/essaybundel-nationale-burgerfora-
verkenning-van-nationale-burgerfora-als-democratisch-gereedschap 
IPCC. (2022). Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate Change. Contribution of Working Group III to the 
Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (P. R. Shukla, J. Skea, R. Slade, A. 
Alkhourdajie, R. van Diemen, D. McCollum, M. Pathak, S. Some, P. Vyas, R. Fradera, M. Belkacemi, A. Hasija, 
G. Lisboa, S. Luz, & J. Malley, Eds.). Cambridge University Press. doi: 10.1017/9781009157926 
Jonker, J., & Faber, N. (2021). Organizing for Sustainability: A Guide to Developing New Business Models. 
Springer International Publishing. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-78157-6 
Jovovic, R., Draskovic, M., Delibasic, M., & Jovovic, M. (2017). The concept of sustainable regional 
development – institutional aspects, policies and prospects. Journal of International Studies, 10(1), 255–266. 
https://doi.org/10.14254/2071-8330.2017/10-1/18 
Koole, R. A. (2019). Is een ‘akkoorden-democratie’ wel een democratie? RegelMaat, 34(2), 95–111. 
https://doi.org/10.5553/RM/0920055X2019034002002 
Lokesh, K., Matharu, A. S., Kookos, I. K., Ladakis, D., Koutinas, A., Morone, P., & Clark, J. (2020). Hybridised 
sustainability metrics for use in life cycle assessment of bio-based products: Resource efficiency and 
circularity. Green Chemistry, 22(3), 803–813. https://doi.org/10.1039/C9GC02992C 
McDonough, W., & Braungart, M. (2002). Cradle to cradle: Remaking the way we make things. North Point 
Press. 
Meadows, D. H. (1998). Indicators and information systems for sustainable development (A Report to the 
Balaton Group, p. 95). The Sustainability Institute. 
Meadows, D. H., Meadows, D. I., Randers, J., & Behrens, W. W. I. (1972). The limits to growth: Report for the 
Club of Rome’s project on the predicament of mankind. New American Library. 
Meadows, D. H., Meadows, D. L., & Randers, J. (1992). Beyond the limits: Confronting global collapse 
envisioning a sustainable future. Chelsea Green Publishing. 
Meadows, D. H., Randers, J., & Meadows, D. (2005). Limits to growth: The 30-year update. Earthscan. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
300 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Ministerie van Infrastructuur en Waterstaat. (2016). Nederland circulair in 2050: Rijksbreed programma 
Circulaire 
Economie 
(p. 
72). 
Ministerie 
van 
Infrastructuur 
en 
Milieu. 
https://www.rijksoverheid.nl/onderwerpen/circulaire-economie/nederland-circulair-in-2050 
Ministerie van Infrastructuur en Waterstaat. (2020, April 24). Statiegeld op kleine plastic flesjes voor minder 
zwerfafval. Rijksoverheid. https://www.rijksoverheid.nl/actueel/nieuws/2020/04/24/statiegeld-op-kleine-
plastic-flesjes-voor-minder-zwerfafval 
Mintzberg, H. (2015). Rebalancing society: Radical renewal beyond left, right, and center. Berret-Koehlers 
Publishers. 
Pax, A., & Reckinger, D. R. (2022). Exploring Priorities of a Food Policy Council for Luxembourg: Empirical 
Results of Two Surveys Conducted with Citizens and Food System Professionals. Université du Luxembourg. 
https://orbilu.uni.lu/bitstream/10993/50552/1/Exploring%20Priorities%20of%20a%20Food%20Policy%20C
ouncil%20for%20Luxembourg_FINAL_compressed.pdf 
Pennink, B., & Gerrits, I. (n.d.). Shared value creation in New Business Models: The development of the 
process in combination with a causal model. Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on New Business 
Models: New Business Models in a Decade of Action: Sustainable, Evidence-Based, Impactful. 6th International 
Conference on New Business Models, Halmstad. 
Prak, M. (2018). Citizens without Nations: Urban Citizenship in Europe and the World, c.1000–1789 (1st ed.). 
Cambridge University Press. https://doi.org/10.1017/9781316219027 
Rittel, H. W. J., & Webber, M. M. (1973). Dilemmas in a general theory of planning. Policy Sciences, 4(2), 155–
169. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF01405730 
Rockström, J., Steffen, W. L., Noone, K., Persson, Å., Chapin III, F. S., Lambin, E., Lenton, T. M., Scheffer, M., 
Folke, C., Schellnhuber, H. J., & others. (2009). Planetary boundaries: Exploring the safe operating space for 
humanity. Ecology and Society, 14(2). http://pdxscholar.library.pdx.edu/iss_pub/64/ 
Roman, M., Varga, H., Cvijanović, V., & Reid, A. (2020). Quadruple Helix Models for Sustainable Regional 
Innovation: 
Engaging 
and 
Facilitating 
Civil 
Society 
Participation. 
Economies, 
8(2), 
48. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/economies8020048 
Roser, M., & Herre, B. (2013). Democracy. Our World in Data. https://ourworldindata.org/democracy 
Sachs, J. D., Kroll, C., Lafortune, G., Fuller, G., & Woelm, F. (2021). The sustainable development goals and 
Covid-19: 
Includes 
the 
SDG 
index 
and 
dashboards. 
Cambridge 
University 
Press. 
https://doi.org/10.1017/97811089922411 
Soens, T. (2006). Polders zonder poldermodel? Een onderzoek naar de rol van inspraak en overleg in de 
waterstaat van de laatmiddeleeuwse Vlaamse kustvlakte (1250-1600). Tijdschrift voor Sociale en Economische 
Geschiedenis/ 
The 
Low 
Countries 
Journal 
of 
Social 
and 
Economic 
History, 
3(4), 
3. 
https://doi.org/10.18352/tseg.686 
Stahel, W. R. (1982). The product-life factor. In S. Grinton Orr (Ed.), Inquiry into the nature of sustainable 
societies: The role of the private sector (pp. 72–104). HARC. 
Stimson, R. J., Stough, R. R., & Roberts, B. H. (Eds.). (2006). Perspectives on Regional Economic Development. 
In 
Regional Economic 
Development: 
Analysis and 
Planning 
Strategy (pp. 
1–51). 
Springer. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-34829-8_1 
Strom, K. (1990). A Behavioral Theory of Competitive Political Parties. American Journal of Political Science, 
34(2), 565. https://doi.org/10.2307/2111461 
Thurn, V., Oertel, G., & Pohl, C. (2018). Genial lokal: So kommt die Ernährungswende in Bewegung. oekom 
verlag. https://www.oekom.de/buch/genial-lokal-9783962380557 
Vereniging Noorden Duurzaam. (2013, July 3). Convenant Betongranulaat voor Granulaatbeton. Vereniging 
Noorden Duurzaam. https://www.noordenduurzaam.nl/convenant-betongranulaat-voor-granulaatbeton 
While, A., Jonas, A. E. G., & Gibbs, D. (2010). From sustainable development to carbon control: Eco-state 
restructuring and the politics of urban and regional development: From sustainable development to carbon 
control. Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers, 35(1), 76–93. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1475-
5661.2009.00362.x 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
301 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
Calculating Circular Value In Co-
Creation With The Construction 
Industry 
 
Myron Koster1,* 
1Affiliation: Centre of Expertise Biobased Economy, Avans University 
of Applied Sciences, Lovensdijkstraat 63, 4818 AJ Breda, The 
Netherlands 
*mjj.koster@avans.nl 
Abstract 
Alternative business models have a hard time setting foot in the construction industry due to 
attractive interest rates of mortgages as well as the long life times of buildings. The development 
of new buildings is a significant investment for property owners and developers. As a result caution 
is naturally taken to stay within budget and reducing costs. Despite of the focus on costs, the value 
of circularity is often discredited during decision-making. The author intends to give circularity a 
stronger vote in the decision-making process by making its value more concrete. 
This paper came about by desk research and co-creation sessions with varying stakeholders 
involved in the Dutch and Belgian construction industries. The co-creation sessions were an attempt 
to iteratively learn how to calculate and approximate the value of circularity, simply by doing it. 
Benchmarks were a helpful tool for initiators to make decisions and relative estimates with more 
ease. Stakeholders with a financial responsibility can more easily be engaged by the use of 
calculators. Participants enjoyed being able to directly see the impact of changing a parameter to 
the outcome, such as Circular Value. The efforts have resulted in two finalized calculators: the End 
of Life Calculator and the Flexibility Calculator. Those can be freely used by initiators and other 
stakeholders in the construction industry. 
The calculators are planned to be further tested and improved with the broader construction 
industry. This is planned in a research collaboration between HZ University of Applied Sciences and 
Avans University of Applied Sciences. 
 
 
Keywords  
circularity, construction industry, co-creation, calculator, circular value 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
302 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Introduction 
Significant impact on the environment and scarce material usage is made if the construction 
industry moves towards circularity. A financial incentive that comes from the inherent added value 
of circularity might allow a transition with more limited governmental subsidies. If you zoom into 
Europe, the construction sector is responsible for about a third of total waste streams. On average, 
a mere 50% of this volume is recycled and the rest is put into landfills or incinerated (Kozlovská and 
Spišáková, 2013). Next to the visible materials, embedded energy as well as labor are going to waste 
in the process of incineration. This destroys significant potential economic value along the way. 
Looking at the environmental impact, circularity has the potential to reduce virgin material use to 
about half, reduce energy consumption by around 40% and reduce CO2 emissions by 35% (Herczeg 
et al., 2014). 
By talking to and engaging with initiators of building projects the author has learned that developing 
a new building is a significant investment to property owners and developers. As a result caution at 
staying within budget and reducing costs is naturally taken. The value of circularity is often 
discredited in the decision-making process while flexibility, as well as remountability can increase 
the value of a construction during and at the end of its functional life. 
There is value in circular building principles. Flexibility can be used to keep the building functional 
to its users over its lifetime and make it potentially live longer. In the Netherlands a building changes 
owner every 25 years on average (Van Oort et al., 2008). A building can be flexible at the location 
where it has been first built, by changing function or floor plans but also by moving the building to 
another location after disassembly. Remountability of the building makes disassembly at the end 
of the functional life of a building possible, which can result in a higher residual financial value by 
reducing labour costs for reuse. In order to make remountability come to fruition a digital Building 
Information Model (BIM) as well as a dissassembly plan including labeling of building elements is 
essential (Draaijer, 2020).  
During interviews that were held by the author and colleagues in 2020 we learned that alternative 
business models were considered by property owners and developers but not used in practice 
(Koster, et al. 2020). Alternatives such as leasing from suppliers or co-owning were explored by 
these initiators. In practice we observed that these circular principles do not lead to alternative 
business models for parties in the construction industry thus far. This may change, but in the 
interviews it was learned that the building is mostly owned by the initiator and paid for by a 
mortgage. Reasons for choosing these relatively common business model are due to attractive 
interest rates of mortgages in the time of writing. Suppliers that want to maintain ownership 
through leasing or rental generally have a higher interest rate resulting in higher costs for the 
property owner. Additionally, the lifetime of buildings is generally very long (at least 50 years). 
Suppliers take risk premiums to compensate for the uncertainty of being responsible for a 
construction over a long life (Koster & Schrotenboer, 2022). The circular challenge of a long life of 
buildings is confirmed by a research of the European Environment Agency in 2020. 
Based on qualitative learnings in interviews as well as desk research we investigated the need to 
get grip on the value of circularity by building initiators. In this paper the learnings of co-creation 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
303 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
sessions, in which we iteratively developed calculators to help approximate the potential Circular 
Value, are shared. The study is part of the Interreg 2 Seas CBCI project (Circular Bio-based 
Construction Industry), a project that applies the design research methodology. 
Method 
This paper came about by desk research and co-creation sessions with people involved in exemplary 
projects (case studies) in the Dutch and Belgian construction industries. The co-creation sessions 
were an attempt to calculate the circular value within four potential topics: Flexibility, End-Of-Life, 
Failure Costs/Integral & Health. These topics were identified in prior research of the author in a 
White Paper called “Five essentials for successful circular bio-based construction initiatives.”. The 
goal of the co-creation sessions was to learn by doing and find out what the parameters for the 
calculations should be, what functional needs the potential users have, as well as reflecting on the 
applicability of the outcome.  
The initial structure of the calculators looks as follows: 
Investment  
Parameters that calculate the required investment & costs 
Value   
Parameters to calculate the value / revenue 
Results  Business case outcome 
The aim of the co-creation sessions was to iteratively improve the structure as well the parameters 
that make up the categories such as ‘costs for conversion to new scenario’. In Figure 1 the first 
version of the calculator before the co-creation sessions can be seen here. 
Figure 1: Initial version of the Flexibility Calculator 
 
Eight separate co-creation sessions were held in 2021. These sessions included 22 attendees (of 
which 19 were unique attendees) with an initiating role in the construction development process 
of recent and ongoing building initiatives. These roles varied from property owners to architects, 
constructors and producers. The session topics were chosen by the initiators after being presented 
with the available calculator topics. Initiators were selected by convenience sampling. They were 
approached via the network of members of the Circular Biobased Construction Industry (CBCI) 
project. Table 1 contains an overview of the participants, their roles, organizations, case names and 
workshop topics. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
304 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Per case, co-creation sessions were held with initiators of the construction projects, totaling eight 
sessions. By an attempt to calculate the circular value for specific building projects, using Excel, we 
collected first-hand experience from and with people in several roles, including top management, 
project management as well as design. Every session we iterated upon the calculator made in Excel 
and enhanced the structure, parameters and underpinning evidence. 
Table 1: Co-creation sessions, participants and topics 
Results 
In this section you will find what we have learned during the co-creation sessions. First the 
individual learnings from the sessions are presented followed by the popularity of topics, ending 
with improvements to the structure of the calculators over time. 
The knowledge gathered during the co-creation sessions is categorized in five topics; General (Table 
2.1), Flexibility (Table 2.2), End-Of-Life (Table 2.3), Health (Table 2.4) and Failure Costs/Integral 
(Table 2.5). Per topic we show the learnings from session to session in a chronological order. The 
calculators were improved iteratively during and between sessions based on the feedback and 
questions of participants. Discussion topics were taken from one session to the next to test 
proposed changes with a broader group. An example of a discussion held several times was about 
the perception of value and that the financial aspect is just one of many more aspects such as 
ID 
Case 
Date 
 
# Participant(s) role 
Organization 
Calculator topic(s) 
A 
Emergis Clinic 
 
3-4-2021 
NL 
4 Controller 
Project Leader 
Project Engineer 
Program Manager 
Emergis (initiator) 
Emergis (initiator) 
Jeras 
Ministry LNV 
End of Life 
Flexibility 
B 
Ghent Living 
Lab 
 
15-4-2021 
BE 
4 Architect 
Post-Doc 
Project Leader 
Researcher 
KU Leuven (initiator) 
KU Leuven (initiator) 
KU Leuven (initiator) 
KU Leuven (initiator) 
End of Life 
Flexibility 
C 
Waterweg 
 
11-06-2021 
NL 
 
2 Founder Producer  
Founder Producer  
Waterweg 
Waterweg 
End of Life 
D 
Mobble 
20-8-2021 
BE 
3 Director Constructor 
Director Constructor 
Director Project Dev. 
Inhout 
Inhout 
Bast Coop 
End of Life 
Flexibility 
E 
Fairm 
9-9-2021 
NL 
1 Founder Producer 
Fairm 
End of Life 
Flexibility 
F 
Emergis Clinic 
4-10-2021 
NL 
3 Architect 
Controller 
Project Engineer 
Agrodome 
Emergis (initiator) 
Jeras 
Health 
G 
Jeras 
15-10-2021 
NL 
1 Project Engineer 
Jeras 
Failure Costs 
H 
‘t Centrum 
18-11-2021 
BE 
5 Architect 
Consultant 
Engineer Director 
Project Coordinator 
Project Leader 
WEST Architectuur 
Elva Consultancy 
TEN 
Kamp C (initiator) 
Kamp C (initiator) 
End of Life 
Flexibility 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
305 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
limiting climate impact as well as reducing scarce resource depletion. In table 2 you find the 
learnings and their respective session ID’s matching with table 1 in the method section. 
Table 2.1: General learnings from the co-creation sessions. 
# 
LEARNING 
ID 
Case 
1.1 
Benchmarks are useful because making estimates about the 
future is quite hard 
A 
Emergis 
Clinic 
1.2 
Optimistic and Pessimistic scenarios could be a helpful way to put 
the results in perspective 
 
 
1.3 
Calculator outcomes that help to set goals, such as the 
break-even percentage of the remountability investment can be 
useful 
 
 
1.4 
A distinction between investments and costs should be made. 
The investment is done at the start while the costs occur at the 
end of life or at the flexibility event 
 
 
1.5 
Benchmarks on storage costs should be added 
 
 
1.6 
Benchmarks on remountability costs should be added 
 
 
1.7 
Complete business case should be on remountable part of the 
building only (this needs to be made explicit in the introduction) 
 
 
1.8 
Feedback: we did an important exercise. With regards to 
improvements they would have to think about it in the coming 
days 
B 
Ghent LL 
 
1.9 
Quote: “What is interesting for us, if we can use this we would 
use it as an argument for investors to build more demountable” – 
Architect at KU Leuven 
 
 
1.10 
Sometimes to many calculations are put in a single cel, helpful to 
split them out 
 
 
1.11 
Many parameters still take quite some explanation to 
understand, formulation should be better 
 
 
1.12 
These calculators are only helpful for us when there is a concrete 
project. Initiators are a better target audience for the calculator 
than producers such as Waterweg 
C 
Waterweg 
 
1.13 
Building sector material- & labour price increases(inflation) 
should be included for the results 
D 
Mobble 
1.14 
Discussed how the investment value should be alocated if an 
investment is made for End-of-life AND Flexible value (simplest 
way is 50-50) 
 
 
1.15 
Adding internal rate of return in order to gain insights on the 
return of a project from a financial perspective is seen as 
interesting 
F 
Emergis 
1.16 
Discussion on true/indirect costs and whether this should be 
included (this was not done to keep it simple, relevant topic) 
 
 
1.17 
For buildings that use other business models for utilities, such as 
rent for an HVAC the estimated remountability investment can 
be skewed or hard to determine 
H 
‘t Centrum 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
306 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
 
1.18 
Leasehold expires after 40 years. After that there is the choice 
that the building goes to the owner of the land or they can 
demount it and sell the materials. So even though the building 
could last for 120 years, it is also reelvant to see what the value 
would be after 40 years because of the above fact 
 
 
1.19 
QUOTES: ”It was useful to do this exercise, effectively seeing that 
it works what we came up with and it is also the hard evidence to 
continue to propagate and promote it. I do think that this 
cautious assessment also indicates that it is certainly worth 
continuing with it [remountable building].” – Project Leader at 
Kamp C & ” I find it very interesting to see the value concretely, 
although I do realize that we have to make quite a few 
assumptions.” – Architect at WEST Architectuur 
 
 
1.20 
It is helpful to set the expected life-time or ownership time early 
on when filling in the calculator. This used to be at the end of the 
calculator 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
307 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 2.2: Learnings from the co-creation sessions with the Flexibility Calculator. 
Table 2.3: Learnings from the co-creation sessions with the End of Life Calculator. 
# 
LEARNING 
ID 
Case 
2.1 
For value we can use the amount that would be invested in 
future newly-built in a case without flexibility 
A 
Emergis Clinic 
 
2.2 
Value should be adjusted for the chances something occur. A 
differentiation can be made between changing location and 
function. Should value of reduced vacanacy of building added?  
 
 
2.3 
Costs can be estimated with square meter prices and also 
adjusted for the chance of occurence 
 
 
2.4 
Quote: "By taking into account flexibility we can optimize 
and/or guarantee our income streams from rental. A building 
or section of a building without functional value to the users 
has a value of 0 Euro's to us. This tool helps us calculate the 
value of flexibility." – Controller at Emergis  
 
 
2.5 
Avoided replacement cost can also be sales revenue when the 
intention is to sell the building at the end of its first functional 
life in about 6 years 
B 
Ghent LL 
 
2.6 
Relocation- and function change chances vary from the first 
session. Interest for <vacancy or potential additional revenue. 
 
 
2.7 
Bottom-up calculation for location- and function change had 
very similar results compared to Top-down approach (€/m2) 
in the first session 
 
 
2.8 
The calculator also works for a planned end of the first 
functional use. With the Living Lab it’s first functional end of 
life is already planned after several years 
 
 
2.9 
A parameter for co-financing from the contractor company 
was added and tested but it turned out tto be confusing so it 
was taken out again  
 
 
2.10 
Transport and storage should also be included as a parameter 
 
 
2.11 
Maintenance / refurbishment costs was added and later 
during the session removed because this category also exists 
without a remountable building, not in scope 
D 
Mobble 
2.12 
Storage and transport costs should be explicitly made 
optional. When you can store on-site or if the building can be 
moved directly to a new place this is not needed 
F 
Emergis 
2.13 
Sales Value After First Life was hard to quantify as well as 
Income loss/cost reduction due to additional building speed. 
The last one was kept empty 
H 
‘t Centrum 
2.14 
Costs were relatively simple to estimate 
 
 
2.15 
Addition that the building can be moved- or change function 
more than once during its functional life should be included 
 
 
# 
LEARNING 
ID 
Case 
3.1 
Benchmarks for demolition costs found and added during the 
session 
A 
Emergis 
Clinic 
3.2 
Benchmarks on building life should be added 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
308 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Table 2.4: Learnings from the co-creation sessions with the Health Calculator. 
3.3 
Quote: "What I really like about the tool is that it doesn't claim to 
be able to calculate residual value, but instead it gives you 
percentages you need to realize in order to have a financially 
feasible case." – Project Manager at KU Leuven  
B 
Ghent LL 
3.4 
Avoided demolition costs as well as a distinction between 
demolition and demounting costs is a good one to be made  
 
 
3.5 
Additional remountability investment is a hard concept, it is best to 
calculate this with total investment sum and add benchmarks   
 
 
3.6 
Make a clearer distinction between the value of the materials and 
the potential sales value. Future Reusable % is hard to determine 
 
 
3.7 
Deposits that are paid by initiators to suppliers should be added 
C 
Waterweg 
3.8 
It is helpful to be able to get an estimate for the end of life value. 
Benchmarks are seen as helpful 
D 
Mobble 
3.9 
It is interesting to add to the calculator ways to show that 
Biobased materials are cheaper to be disposed of than building 
waste if they can be composted (this is currently (2021) not 
possible) 
E 
Fairm 
3.10 
Percentage of bio-based materials being used is required in order 
to be able to calculate waste cost reduction with bio-based 
materials 
F 
Emergis  
3.11 
Deposit was not as relevant for the team because they assume to 
be able to sell the complete building as a package to a next owner. 
The end-of-life for this initiator wouldn’t be that of the building 
H 
‘t Centrum 
3.12 
For estimating a biobased percentage, it is relevant to make an 
estimate by weight or volume. Volume was chosen as the easiest 
way to estimate. This was relatively hard to estimate 
 
 
3.13 
Discussion whether they should take into account the initial 
investment or all building costs and replacements costs over the 
lifetime of the building. (initial was chosen)   
 
 
3.14 
Prevented Regular Demolition Costs were relatively hard to 
estimate 
 
 
3.15 
The opportunity to compost biobased building materials is seen as 
uncertain, but the team does expect that throughout the lifetime 
of the building this technology can mature and includes it 
(relatively small value) 
 
 
# 
LEARNING 
ID 
Case 
4.1 
Biobased business case is hard to make in general and for Health 
specifically due to a lack of evidence. Fairm is a Biobased insulation 
producer 
E 
Fairm 
4.2 
 
The business case coming out of the calculator was impressive to 
them but the applicability for circularity is seen as low because the 
link between health and biobased materials is currently lacking 
scientific evidence (2021) 
F 
Emergis 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
309 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
 
Table 2.5: Learnings from the co-creation sessions with Failure Costs / Integral Calculator. 
 
Before the co-creation sessions initiators were presented with the four calculator topics. They could 
choose on which topic they wanted to focus for their specific building case. This has shown us that 
the Health as well as Failure Costs/Integral calculators were the least popular. These sessions were 
interesting to respectively two and one initiator(s), while the End of Life session was relevant for 
seven initiators and the flexibility session for five. During both of the least popular sessions we faced 
a challenge in relating the topic to circularity or biobased materials. This was due to a lack of 
evidence for the relation between health and bio-based for the health calculator and for the Failure 
Costs / Integral calculator this was related to the topic itself. Additionally, the output of the Failure 
Costs / Integral calculator was perceived as too abstract to be applicable for the participant.  
After eight co-creation sessions as well as iterations, the final (flexibility) calculator is structured as 
can be seen in Figure 2. The final structure of the calculators consists of the following categories: 
General  
Parameters that calculate the required investment & costs 
Value   
Parameters to calculate the value / revenue 
Results  Business case outcome 
Costs 
 
Here the costs of the calculator topic are approximated  
Results (on the right)The outcome is shown as a business case and present value 
Scenario’s (right) 
Estimating optimistic and pessimistic scenario’s (added later) 
 
 
 
4.3 
Potential health improvements related to reduced CO2 levels by the 
HVAC could be taken into account by the constructor that joined the 
session. It would be something to take into account with the 
installations they select 
 
 
# 
LEARNING 
ID 
Case 
5.1 
At the start of the project this assessment could best be done 
according to the constructor 
G 
Jeras 
5.2 
Failure cost calculator was tested but the results that came out were 
experieced as quite abstract and not very applicable in practice or to 
be related to circularity 
 
 
5.3 
One of the parameters used for the calculator (Van Heel, Buijs & Wolf, 
2019) was ”shared responsibility” this was confusing for the 
constructor. He is of the opinion that someone should carry the 
responsibility and that it shouldn't be shared. A sense of responsibility 
should be there but this is different from the formal sense 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
310 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 2: Overview of the finalized flexibility calculator 
 
Compared to the first version of the calculator several categories have been added which 
emerged from the co-creation sessions. This includes the parameters of the topic General as well 
as a separate section for Costs. Since the costs occur at a later time, they have been consciously 
separated from the investments which they were initially part of. For the result section Net 
Present Value as well as Internal Rate of Return insights were added. This included the time 
aspect to the outcome of the calculations. Lastly Scenarios were added to the results to give users 
the possibility to make an optimistic and pessimistic approximation of the Circular Value. 
Conclusions 
The goal of the efforts made in this research was to learn by doing and find out what the parameters 
for practically useful circular calculators should be, what functional needs the potential users have, 
as well as reflecting on the applicability of the outcome. 
The co-creation efforts have resulted in a set of calculators that can be used by participants in the 
construction industry. The author intends to give circularity a stronger vote in the decision making 
by making its value more concrete. It is important to realize that the outcomes of the calculator are 
an approximation, it is meant as a tool that can contribute to better informed decisions. In this 
regard the benchmarks were a very helpful tool to initiators making it easier for them to make 
decisions and relative choices at every parameter. 
The approach of ‘learning by doing’ was very helpful. By trying to make calculations for a specific 
case and reflecting during the session we found out what was perceived as relevant and could, 
enrich the calculations. It is important to note that it has been a relative limited number of co-
creation sessions that were held in the creation of the calculators. Even though the results are 
unlikely to be representative for the whole population, the dialogues and reflection between the 
(19) stakeholders with varying expertise contributed to the qualitative value of the calculators.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
311 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Over the course of the co-creation sessions it has been noted that the number of changes reduced 
from iteration to iteration. If we look at the change from the initial version to the latest version we 
notice that the results/outputs of the calculator got enriched with Present Value as well as scenario 
thinking. These tools can help in the decision-making process such as engaging stakeholders with a 
financial responsibility. The potential for directly seeing the impact of a change, as well as positive 
and negative scenarios was regarded by many attendees as useful. What became clear is that 
estimating the investment as well as costs was relatively simple but estimation of the value/revenue 
was experienced as a more complicated matter for the target audience.  
Inclusion of a ‘General’ section helped stakeholders to set the boundaries of the calculation, it was 
perceived that it helped attendees in their understanding of the process. Benchmarks were 
experienced as a useful tool to deal with uncertainty and make decisions. The values of the 
parameters set in each session were averaged to create a benchmark that was used in the latest 
version of the calculator.  
By letting initiators decide what calculator topics were relevant to work on we found that the most 
interest seems to be with the topics Flexibility and End of Life. These topics naturally got more 
attention than the other two topics. In the sessions that were held for these topics (Health and 
Failure Costs/Integral) we found a limited connection between the topics and circularity. 
We found that calculators help initiators of building projects approximate the circular value. It is a 
means to get the value of circularity out of the shadows and can act as a discussion and decision-
making tool. In order to make an impact in the construction industry the Flexibility Calculator as 
well as End of Life Calculator are freely accessible under a Creative Commons license (Attribution-
ShareAlike). 
Recommendations 
Since the number of initiators involved in the development of the calculators is relatively limited 
further research should be aimed at a quantitative validation. This is planned in a collaboration 
between HZ University of Applied Sciences and Avans University of Applied Sciences. In this 
research the calculators will be used more widely to validate the applicability and intended impact 
of circular value in the broader construction industry. 
The Health as well as Failure Costs Calculators can be developed further. First indications show that 
most value can be achieved in the health domain. It would be very valuable if further research is 
done to find evidence for the relation between bio-based materials and absenteeism as well as 
productivity in a non-residential context. Other circular calculator topics that could be of interest 
are Building-Life Extension, End of Life Value of Existing Buildings as well as a Maintenance & 
Replacement Costs calculator. 
More research can be done on the lacking adoption of alternative business models, such as leasing 
and co-ownership, in the building sector. This lack of adoption seems to be related to factors such 
as the average life of a building as well as the maintenance costs in relation to the upfront 
investment. For the heating, ventilation and air conditioning installations (HVAC) in a building 
alternative business models are more common practice than for the construction. Comparing the 
construction industry to other industries could shine a light on these mechanisms. Additional 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
312 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
qualitative research amongst financial institutions can be another beneficial contributor to this 
topic.  
A discussion held in multiple co-creation sessions was the definition of value. It was noted that the 
financial dimension of the calculator is one of many aspects, such as climate impact, experiential 
value or scarce material depletion. It is important that work concerning true costs and pricing, such 
as Life Cycle Analysis are continued. 
Acknowledgements 
This project has received funding from the European Union’s Interreg 2 Seas 2014-2020 Programme 
co-funded by the European Regional Development Fund under grant number 2S05-036 CBCI. The 
content of this report reflects the authors’ view and the Interreg 2 Seas Programme Authorities are 
not liable for any use that may be made of the information contained herein. 
We wish to thank the organizations, co-creation attendees and CBCI team members that 
contributed to this study. The knowledge and experience of our interactions were invaluable to the 
creation of the current paper and the preceding White Paper (Koster et al., 2020). The calculator 
has been designed by an organization called Studio MES from The Netherlands. If you have any 
feedback feel free to reach out to the author of this paper. 
References 
Draaijer, A. (2020). Circulair bouwen, duurder of goedkoper?-Een kwalitatieve analyse naar het effect van 
circulair bouwen op de Life Cycle Cost van kantoorgebouwen (Doctoral dissertation). 
European Environment Agency. (2020). Construction and demolition waste: challenges and opportunities in 
a circular economy. https://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/construction-and-demolition-waste-
challenges. 
Herczeg, M., McKinnon, D., Milios, L., Bakas, I., Klaassens, E., Svatikova, K., & Widerberg, O. 2014. Resource 
Efficiency in the Building Sector Final Report. Client: DG Environment. 
Koster, M., Schrotenboer, I., Van der Burgh, F., Dams, B., Jacobs, L., Versele, A. & Verdoodt, S. (2020). White 
Paper: Five essentials for successful circular bio-based construction initiatives. Circular Bio-based 
Construction Industry (CBCI). 
Koster, M. & Schrotenboer, I. (2022). Successful circular bio based construction initiatives: five essentials from 
case studies. 4th International Conference on Bio-Based Building Materials 
Kozlovská, M., & Spišáková, M. 2013. Construction waste generation across construction project life-cycle. 
Organization, technology & management in construction: an international journal, 5(1), 687-695. 
Van Heel, P., Buijs, M., & Wolf, C. (2019). Verspilde moeite, over faalkosten in de bouwsector. Amsterdam: 
ABN-AMRO. 
 
Van Oort, F., Ponds, R., Vliet, J. V., Amsterdam, H. V., Declerck, S., Knoben, J., ... & Weltevreden, J. (2008). 
Verhuizingen van bedrijven en groei van werkgelegenheid. 
 
Book: Brand, S. (1995). How buildings learn: What happens after they're built. Penguin. 
Web page:  CBS. 2018. Minder verhuizingen in 2018. Available from: https://www.cbs.nl/nl-
nl/nieuws/2019/09/minder-verhuizingen-in-2018 [Accessed 28th January 2022]. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
313 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Web page: CBS. 2021. Nieuwbouwwoningen; inputprijsindex bouwkosten 2000=100, vanaf 1990. Available 
from: https://opendata.cbs.nl/statline/#/CBS/nl/dataset/80444ned/table?fromstatweb  [Accessed 28th 
January 2022]. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
314 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Blockchain Technology and Circular 
Economy   
 
Plinio Limata1,*  
1Department of Business Studies, Roma Tre University, Via Silvio 
D’Amico 77 00145 Roma; *  
*plinio.limata@uniroma3.it  
Abstract 
Can the blockchain be the infrastructure of the circular economy paradigm? In the present paper, 
we first explore the blockchain and circular economy concepts and consider why and how they 
could interact. Our inquiry of the literature provides a positive theoretical answer. However, 
shortcomings are also reviewed in terms of their practical implementation. Much will depend on 
how the blockchain technology and its functionalities (e.g., smart contracts, distributed 
autonomous organizations) will be able to support the circular economy ecosystem.  
Keywords  
Blockchain, Circular Economy, Supply Chain.  
1. Introduction 
Blockchain technologies promise to bring disruptive changes at several levels well beyond the realm 
of cryptocurrencies, in which they were first deployed. The academic literature exploring the 
potential institutional applications of blockchain technologies is in its infancy but is proliferating. 
We aim to tap into this stream, focusing on the exploration of the potential intertwining of 
blockchain technologies with the circular economy. 
It has been claimed that government, governance, and classical economic paradigms are challenged 
by the possibilities that could potentially arise from the development of decentralized political and 
socio-economic systems (among many: Swan, 2015; Tapscott & Tapscott, 2016; Mougayar, 2016; 
Markey-Towler, 2018). A first systemic shift came with the Internet (Akgiray, 2019); the blockchain 
could prove to be the next step. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
315 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The application of this technology could result in a transformation6 of the functioning of society, 
converging into decentralized networks run by trust machines7. Given that the blockchain has the 
chance to become the next dominating infrastructure, would the current market paradigm be 
modified? If so, how? The blockchain in its purest form (public) is completely horizontal and 
decentralized; therefore, there would be neither a central authority nor trusted intermediary, while 
nowadays hierarchy, often coupled with the linearity of processes, is intrinsic in societies and 
enterprise models. Thus, what impact can blockchain applications such as autonomous agent, 
smart contracts and smart properties or distributed network organizations have? Such applications 
are already being used in finance and cryptocurrencies, but the merging of these with the big 
paradigm of the circular economy shows the premise for unsettling current market mechanisms 
(e.g., creating the circular supply chain and circular advantage). This paradigmatic shift should be 
based on a trusted, immutable and secure technological framework that needs to ensure benefits 
while minimizing weaknesses and risks; the blockchain. However, when considering the 
implementation of this technology several challenges must still be addressed to unlock its potential. 
The circular economy has also failed to show its full potential so far. Will the blockchain help to 
unlock it? Sustainability and circularity are two of the current societal challenges which can be 
addressed by the pairing of the blockchain with the concept of the circular economy (Faber and 
Jonker, 2019). How? 
To answer this question, we aim to speculate and understand why blockchain technologies could 
be implemented in the circular economy. Research on the literature of both topics has been carried 
out in order to identify similarities, differences, and challenges to be faced for to the development 
of a relationship of mutual benefit between technology, market, and therefore society. The two 
concepts will be first introduced to then discuss and conclude why and how the topics could fit well 
according to our research. We believe this merger to be possible as long as the relevant challenges 
raised by the pairing of blockchain technologies and the principles of the circular economy are 
addressed properly. The circular economy ecosystem must still be built and the blockchain’s unique 
qualities may play a crucial role in the large-scale implementation of this economic paradigm. 
However, there is still a long way to go. Future research suggestions will be presented at the end of 
this article. 
2. Background 
2.1 An overview of the blockchain 
In 2008, Satoshi Nakamoto’s paper, “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System,” formed the 
basis of modern blockchain-based cryptocurrency innovation.  He established a distributed ledger 
representing a network consensus of every transaction that has ever occurred (Tapscott and 
Tapscott, 2016) without a trusted third party. Beck and Muller-Bloch (2017, p. 1) define the 
blockchain as “a distributed ledger or list of data records of transactions that may involve any kind 
of value, money, goods, property, or votes. The blockchain is shared in a decentralized network of 
 
6 Transformation is a process in which available capacities and competencies are rearranged to offer a new 
value proposition (Jonker and de Witte 2013, quoted in Faber and Jonker, 2019, p. 223). 
7 The definition was given by the Economist (The Trust Machine, Oct. 31, 2015) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
316 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
computers and based on mathematics and advanced cryptography, where each transaction can be 
verified by the entire network.”  
In other words, it is a public record kept without the requirement of a public authority (Markey-
Towler, 2017). In the emerging blockchain world, there is “apparently” no space for intermediaries, 
and trust moves from people to the network (and its features) and even objects on the network 
(Tapscott and Tapscott, 2016). That is why the blockchain has been defined as a machine for 
creating trust (Economist, 2015), capable of disrupting how we organize and coordinate human 
activities (Swan, 2015). 
There are currently three different yet complementary definitions of the blockchain: 1) technical – 
as a transparent and immutable distributed ledger; 2) business – an exchange network; and 3) legal 
– it replaces third parties (Mougayar, 2016). Basically everything – tangible or intangible – could be 
transacted within the blockchain (Swan, 2015; Tapscott and Tapscott, 2016). 
Blockchains can be considered as a coordinating institution for creating new economies (Berg and 
Berg, 2017) or as a new “general purpose technology” (Evans, 2014). Alternatively, it can be 
considered as “meta-technology because it affects other technologies, and it is made up of several 
technologies itself […] combining game theory, cryptography science, and software engineering” 
(Mougayar, 2016). How these elements are combined results in three possible outputs: public, 
private, and consortium blockchain.  Moreover, the implementation of these three types is strictly 
intertwined with developing blockchain systems’ capacities: “Blockchain 1.0, 2.0, and 3.0. 
Blockchain 1.0 is currency. […] Blockchain 2.0 is contracts, the entire slate of economic, market, and 
financial applications using the blockchain that are more extensive than simple cash transactions. 
[…] Blockchain 3.0 is blockchain applications beyond currency, finance, and markets—particularly 
in the areas of government, health, science, literacy, culture, and art.” (Swan, 2015). It means that 
blockchain provides three levels of application: (1) Blockchain 1.0: accounting; (2) Blockchain 2.0: 
contractual; (3) Blockchain 3.0: community level (Faber and Jonker, 2019). Nowadays, a new 
evolution is being developed: Blockchain 4.0, the result of the joint use of blockchain and artificial 
intelligence. These implementations in technology reflect the associated value proposition of the 
blockchain (Angelis and Ribeiro da Silva, 2018): transaction cost (1.0); Added services (2.0); 
Organization boundaries (3.0); Autonomous Decision-making (4.0)  
However, whatever the category may be, blockchain implementation should follow the seven 
design principles identified by Tapscott and Tapscott (2016): 1) Networked integrity; 2) Distributed 
power; 3) Value as an incentive; 4) Security; 5) Privacy; 6) Rights preserved; 7) Inclusion. 
Respecting these principles should ensure the situating of positive blockchain impacts into three 
broad categories: solving problems, creating opportunities, and applying capabilities (Mougayar, 
2016). These impacts can be envisaged in every field of application, enhancing the capacities of 
societies of resilience and coordination. Hayek (1945) believed that the path to a functioning 
economy—or society—was decentralization and asserted that a decentralized economy 
complements the dispersed nature of information spread throughout society. Taleb (2007, 2016) 
confirmed decentralized systems as more resilient to shock. The decentralization operated by the 
blockchain seems to enable what 2001 Nobel laureate M. Spence defines the “flow of value” (how 
digital technologies transform global value chains through the dynamics of information flows). As 
will be shown, the problem of the dispersed nature of information is crucial to the circular economy, 
and the blockchain, via its technical features (anonymous, transparent, immutable, and distributed) 
and applications (e.g., smart contracts), seems to offer a legitimate solution. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
317 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2.2 The Circular Economy 
The unsustainability of the current economic paradigm has been taken for granted (Rifkin, 2012); 
Non-sustainability is the biggest global challenge facing humanity at the beginning of the twenty-
first century (Dapp, 2018). The publication of the club of Rome (1972) and the following Brutland 
report (1987) clearly stated this fact many years ago. The linearity of the productive system is 
among its identifiable causes. Its main weakness is the inability to extend a product’s lifecycle, 
losing value and misusing material, energy, and labor (Lacy et al., 2016). New paradigms are needed 
to be applied on a large scale. The so-called circular economy (CE) is currently gaining attention as 
an alternative model of production and consumption, a growth strategy enabling the ‘decoupling’ 
of resource use from economic growth, thereby contributing to sustainable development (Reike et 
al., 2018). It represents the most recent attempt to conceptualize the integration of economic 
activity and environmental wellbeing in a sustainable way (Murray, 2015) to rethinking and 
redesign how economies work. The circular economy recognizes effective and efficient economic 
functioning at multiple levels – governments and individuals, globally and locally, and for both large- 
and small-scale businesses (Kouhizadeh et al., 2019). 
Although Geissdoerfer et al. (2018) suggest that “Stahel might have introduced the concept in 1982 
talking of a self-replenishing system that minimizes material and energy input as well as 
environmental deterioration without negative influences on growth and progress”, the term was 
first used in the book “Economics of Natural Resources and the Environment” (D. Pearce and R. K. 
Turner, 1991). Then, the publication of “Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things” (M. 
Braungart and W. McDonough, 2002) facilitated wider public discussion on the topic. Further 
pioneers such as Ernst U. von Weizsäcker et al., with “Factor Four: Doubling Wealth, Halving 
Resource Use” or Gunter Pauli and his “Blue Economy” (2010) contributed markedly to the debate. 
Currently “the circular economy is a generic term for an economy where growth is decoupled from 
scarce resource use” (Lacy et al., 2016). The term is so generic that, as highlighted by Kirchherr et 
al. (2017), it is possible to gather 114 definitions of a circular economy. In an attempt to find 
common ground among the different interpretations studied, the same authors presented the 
following definition:  
“A circular economy describes an economic system that is based on business models which replace 
the ‘end-of-life’ concept with reducing, alternatively reusing, recycling and recovering materials in 
production/distribution and consumption processes, thus operating at the micro-level (products, 
companies, consumers), meso level (eco-industrial parks) and macro-level (city, region, nation and 
beyond), with the aim of accomplishing sustainable development, which implies creating 
environmental quality, economic prosperity and social equity, to the benefit of current and future 
generations.” 
Practitioners’ definitions are much more concise, placing a greater focus on the relationship 
between materials and products. In fact, according to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2015), “We 
can define circular an economy that is restorative and regenerative by design and which aims to 
keep products, components, and materials at their highest utility and value at all times, 
distinguishing between technical and biological cycles.” “Material use is of two types: biological 
(renewable) materials, designed for reuse and ultimate return to the biosphere, and technical 
(nonrenewable) materials, designed to move back and forth between production and consumption 
with minimal loss in quality or value” (Lacy et al., 2016). Moreover, “it is conceived as a continuous 
positive development cycle that preserves and enhances natural capital, optimizes resource yields, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
318 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
and minimizes system risks by managing finite stocks and renewable flows. It works effectively at 
every scale” (Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 2016), being able to create a so-called circular 
advantage. This can be defined as the competitive edge gained by organizations adopting circular 
economy principles as a core element of their growth strategies (Lacy et al., 2016). Concisely, “its 
value drivers include extending the regeneration of natural capital and the useful life of finite 
resources, maximizing the utilization of assets and creating new use cycles for end-of-life assets” 
(Askoxylakis et al., 2017) thus resulting in a circular supply chain (Lacy and Rutqvist, 2015).  
Nowadays, supply chain currently “depends on organizations’ networks, since one single enterprise 
does not own the entire set of skills and resources required to deliver its value proposition (Taylor 
et al., 2001 cited in Geissdoerfer et al., 2018). These network configurations are variable according 
to specific attributes (such as dynamic behavior, level of trust between nodes, distribution of risks 
or benefits, geographical dispersion, etc.), characteristics of each organization representing the 
network node and also product type (Taylor et al., 2001 quoted in Geissdoerfer et al., 2018). The 
configuration can be linear or circular; each has its own way to be managed. Geissdoerfer et al. 
(2018) provide a definition of circular supply chain management (CSCM), viewed as “the tool to 
close, slow, intensify, narrow, and dematerialize material and energy loops to minimize resource 
input into and waste and emission leakage out of the system, to improve its operative effectiveness 
and efficiency and generate competitive advantages.” This can lead to the development of new 
business models and economic interactions among market stakeholders, favored by the 
development of decentralized structures and integrated management for the supply chain thanks 
to the blockchain (Rubio et al., 2018). For example, Lacy et al. (2016) identified five new types: i) 
the above-mentioned Circular Supplies business model; ii) the Recovery and Recycling business 
model (also known as Resource Recovery); iii) the Product Life Extension business model; iv) the 
Sharing Platform business model; v) the Product as a Service business model. Each one of these 
business models has its own particular specificity that is reflected in the way the different systems 
are organized. Such specificity can also be observed in the blockchain too; the different levels of 
applications (accounting, contracting, and community) reflect different levels of integration with 
the different business models mentioned above, with particular concern with governance and 
functioning of the network (R. Casado-Vara et al., 2018). 
Research is beginning to investigate use cases. An example case involves the Product Life-Extension 
business model, in which by using the blockchain companies can monitor real information on the 
life cycle of materials and products and determine initiatives to extend their life cycle (Kouhizadeh 
et al., 2019; Faber and Jonker, 2019). Similarly, the blockchain may be suitable for the 
implementation of the product as a service model (Vogel et al., 2019).  
There are several initiatives currently underway to implement the circular economy. The main 
actors are legislative and governmental bodies, NGOs, and consultancy firms. The plurality of the 
implementers is reflected in the absence of common ground (Kalmykova et al., 2017). Among the 
primary challenges related to the circular economy, those related to business models can be 
mentioned, such as data ownership, data sharing, data integration, collaboration and competence 
requirements (Antikainen et al., 2018). Many of these can be addressed thanks to digitalization. In 
fact, it has been claimed that pairing digitalization with circular economy principles can transform 
the relationship between the economy and both materials and finite resources, unlocking 
additional value and generating positive outcomes (Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 2016). In practice, 
cloud computing, big data, and constant information innovations can lead to greater insight into a 
product or the price, availability, and performance of a service (Lacy et al., 2016). Synthetically, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
319 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
digital solutions can enable circular business models through automated monitoring, control and 
optimization of resources and material flow by providing accurate information on the availability, 
location and condition of products (Antikainen et al., 2018). Information on the quantity and quality 
of products and their raw material contents must be collected and retained, resulting in the need 
for continuous dialogue in order to create and share information. This process can be improved 
thanks to information systems supported by blockchain technology that will affect circular economy 
performance at multiple levels (Kouhizadehet al., 2019) thanks to the so-called Internet of things 
(IoT). The sensory networks of the Internet of things (IoT) enable the measuring of real-life 
phenomena (Dapp, 2018). In his book, “The zero marginal cost society” (2014), Rifkin clearly 
expressed its potentialities. As is now known, in order to be fully operative, the IoT requires 
intelligent assets that must be governed in the case of the circular economy “by three underlying 
attributes enabling circularity: location, condition, and availability” (Askoxylakis et al., 2017). These 
intelligent assets could be placed on the blockchain thanks to its technological features. As 
suggested by Askoxylakis et al. (2017), blockchain-based mechanisms can effectively enable the 
transfer of asset ownership directly between parties participating in the circular economy while 
introducing trust, efficiency, and automation in asset exchange contracts (fig. 5). On the possible 
integration between blockchains and the IoT, Conoscenti et al. (2016) provided a systematic 
literature review, while an analysis of challenges and opportunities is provided by Reyna et al., 2018.    
3. Discussion - How can the blockchain be suitable for 
the circular economy? 
As highlighted above, the coordination of material and information flows within the circular 
economy is crucial. Information sharing is an urgent requirement in supply chains, especially with 
greater interest of industry 4.0 developments and digitization (Kouhizadeh et al., 2019).  To this 
end, digitalization is considered one of the enablers of the circular economy due to its building of 
visibility and intelligence into products and assets (Antikainen et al., 2018). The interplay between 
the circular economy and intelligent asset value drivers is already proving fertile ground for 
innovation and value creation; “it is now people-people, people-things, and things-things.”8 In such 
a framework there is no space for trusted intermediaries. Blockchains are a low-cost market 
disruption to any business acting as a middleman. People will be able to connect, share, and 
transact directly with one another. The blockchain will enable the creation of decentralized 
networks that can operate using alternatives such as smart contracts and provide economic 
incentives to their participants via cryptocurrencies (Mougayar, 2016; BitcoinBanc, 2016).  
In practice, the blockchain allows individuals to carry out their work and be compensated inside 
new circular and self-contained economies with their own currency and work units (Mougayar, 
2016; BitcoinBanc, 2016). Since there is no intermediary operator, the value produced within these 
platforms can be more equally redistributed among those who have contributed to its creation (De 
Filippi, 2018). Moreover, according to the Mougayar (2016) these processes will open a new 
chapter in the nature of work and its organization, raising the opportunity for a more equal 
redistribution of the means of production, both digitally and physically, as a type of “platform 
cooperativism” (De Filippi, 2018). However, in an assessment of the real improvements offered by 
 
8 https://blockgeeks.com/guides/blockchain-applications/ - Consulted on February 8, 2020 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
320 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the blockchain it is difficult to address potential impacts on income inequality with certainty (Novak, 
2018). 
The blockchain appeared on the stage as the foundation of the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, but its 
potential is far greater than this. It has the potential to transform traditional industry with its key 
characteristics: decentralization, persistency, anonymity, and auditability (Zeng et al., 2016). The 
potential benefits do not stop here. In his 1937 paper “The Nature of the Firm,” the Nobel Prize 
winner N. Coase identified three types of costs in the economy: search, coordination, and 
contracting. The blockchain can reduce each of these by addressing two problems of traditional 
governance structures: (1) principal-agent dilemma, and (2) high transaction costs of coordination 
(Blockchain hub, 2017).  The blockchain can achieve this through the application of software that 
can be implemented into it. Until now the most developed have been smart contracts. N. Szabo 
coined the phrase in 1994, defining a smart contract as “a computerized transaction protocol that 
executes the terms of a contract. The general objectives of smart contract design are to satisfy 
common contractual conditions (such as payment terms, liens, confidentiality, and even 
enforcement), minimize exceptions both malicious and accidental, and minimize the need for 
trusted intermediaries. Related economic goals include lowering fraud loss, arbitration and 
enforcement costs, and other transaction costs.”9 In other words, smart contracts contain a set of 
values and only unlock those values if the predefined conditions are met (Faber and Jonker, 2019). 
Either identified as autonomous agents (software that makes decisions and acts on them without 
human intervention) applied on a large-scale, these can give rise to: 
Decentralized Autonomous Organization – DAOs, which can be seen “as the most complex form of 
a smart contract, where the bylaws of the decentralized organization are embedded into the code 
of the smart contract, using complex token governance rules” (Blockchain hub, 2017) that requires 
little or no traditional management or hierarchy to generate customer value and owner wealth. 
Decentralized collaborative organizations – DCOs, which may represent a more cooperative form 
of crowdsourcing, sometimes referred to as “platform cooperativism” through which users qualify 
both as contributors and shareholders of the platforms to which they contribute (De Filippi, 2018). 
Distributed application – Dapp, a set of smart contracts that stores data on a home-listings 
blockchain. 
 
The implementation of smart contracts, which can be used for supply chain process management 
and even process reengineering (Kouhizadeh et al., 2019), and the broad diffusion of DAOs, DCOs 
and Dapps, can easily reshape the boundaries of a company, dropping Coase’s search costs and 
coordination costs and giving the opportunity to enterprises to disaggregate into more effective 
networks. This process seems familiar to the particular process enhanced by the circular economy; 
it involves entire networks of production and a diffusion of responsibility throughout these 
networks is prevalent (Murray et al., 2015). This decentralization, which would result in a shift in 
the system from vertical and hierarchical to circular and horizontal, consequently poses several 
challenges that must be addressed, concerning regulatory, governance and technological.  
 
9 http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/rob/Courses/InformationInSpeech/CDROM/Literature/LOTwinterschool2006/sz
abo.best.vwh.net/smart.contracts.html – Consulted on February 7, 2020 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
321 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
As suggested, the Circular Supply-Chain business model that could be implemented on the 
blockchain can allow companies to improve the value they offer customers, operate in future-proof 
mode and be more competitive overall (P. Lacy et al., 2016). Moreover, the development of such 
an integrated technological framework could enrich the biodiversity of the market. For example, 
Tapscott and Tapscott (2016) identified seven network enterprises models that will be possible to 
adopt: i) the Peer Producers; ii) the Rights Creators; iii) Blockchain Cooperatives; iv) the Metering 
Economy; v) the Platform Builders; vi) Blockchain Makers; vii) the Enterprise Collaborators. Each of 
these business models promises to reshape markets and the relationships between the actors 
involved, resulting in an increase in the “platform cooperativism” stated by De Filippi (2018). 
The blockchain may replace the model of top-down hierarchical organizations with a system of 
distributed, bottom-up cooperation (De Filippi, 2018) – a fundamental aspect of the circular 
economy is the involvement of consumers in a sharing or servicing the economy (Kouhizadeh et al., 
2019) – representing a technological instrument that can enable the creation of value and provide 
a solid and reliable infrastructure.  
4. Conclusions 
The decentralization initiated by the blockchain and its subsequent impact, must be studied in 
greater depth to find legitimate solutions to the challenges posed to the market’s current 
functioning. As Arruñada (2018) suggests, law and regulatory agencies will have much of the 
responsibility in dealing with these new phenomena and they will inevitably be responsible for 
regulating them, assessing the limits that must not be overstepped. Blockchain implementation on 
a large-scale still faces several challenges before it can unlock its proclaimed potential. It is possible 
at this juncture to  place these challenges into three categories: technical aspects (e.g., governance), 
the development of business models and correlated incentive mechanisms (e.g., scalability is a 
critical barrier originating from the immaturity of blockchain technology – Kouhizadeh et al., 2019), 
and legal aspects (e.g., applicable regulations).  
This also holds true for the application of the circular economy on a large scale. The transition 
towards larger scale application will require the ability to manage disruptiveness and radical 
innovation in the industry and to overrun the barriers suggested by the literature: financial, 
structural, operational, attitudinal and technological (Ritzén and Sandström, 2017).  
Hence,  the availability of the right technology appears to be paramount for its implementation 
(Kirchherr et al., 2018), since the idea of the circular business model is that the ecosystem (such as 
the blockchain) and not any one company closes the loop (Antikainen et al., 2018). This shared 
particularity, combined with the technological features of the blockchain technology (e.g., 
transparency and traceability of the processes of the supply chain follow from the unique 
construction of the blockchain (Faber and Jonker, 2019), give rise to a suggestion that, on a 
theoretical level, it is possible to imagine the active cooperation and combined implementation of 
these two concepts to attain shared societal benefits. For example, we consider plausible the idea 
of the implementation of the circular economy through private blockchains or consortium models, 
in which public and private ledgers are integrated in order to ensure distributed governance, 
control, and benefits. This integration process will have to take into account the development of 
new business models, such as those identified by Talpscott and Talpscott (2016), which can possibly 
lead to a change in the structure and boundaries of the market, even resulting in the redistribution 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
322 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
of wealth and wellbeing (Novak, 2018). However, this is another claim that must be proven. The 
development and implementation of novel technology does not guarantee that it will be used and 
be successful. For example, the principal obstacle to the proliferation of blockchain technology is 
the cost involved in its application (Rubio et al., 2018).  
Further research is required to gain a greater understanding of the underlying motivators and 
barriers that will lead to or discourage the adopting of blockchain technologies for supply chains 
(Francisco and Swanson, 2018). Most blockchain-based articles do not focus on potential use cases 
and motivation factors that favor the use of blockchain (Vogel et al., 2019). Moreover, this adoption 
will imply a change in the organizational culture of the supply chain and a more integrated vision in 
which there are no individual motivations but synergistic transactions in favor of the entire chain 
(Rubio et al., 2018). Solutions are currently under development. For example, Dapp (2018) proposes 
a new system which could motivate people to act more sustainably while remaining decentralized, 
self-organizing, multi-layered, and circular thanks to a multi-dimensional and multi-layered 
incentive (and feedback) system based on cryptocurrencies. 
The real capacity for the unlocking of the potential benefits espoused by practitioners and 
enthusiasts will only become plausible via practical implementations and assessments of their 
impact, while bearing in mind that a circular economy requires broader and more inclusive supply 
chains, not only in industry but in communities, both individually and in terms of households. This 
dispersion and variety of actors causes difficulties in identifying, developing, and maintaining 
reliable circular economy sourcing (Kouhizadeh et al., 2019). 
However, the real capacity for the unlocking of the potential benefits espoused by practitioners and 
enthusiasts will only become plausible via practical implementations and assessments of their 
impact. Multiple and single-use cases may serve this purpose. We need to bear in mind that a 
circular economy requires broader and more inclusive supply chains, not only in industry but also 
in communities (Kouhizadeh et al., 2019), which means considering all the sustainability dimensions 
of the entire process. Although several impact assessment tools are to be adopted, these will 
probably need to be adapted to adequately address the goals and issues that communities will 
establish for themselves.  
References 
Akgiray, V. (2019) "The Potential for Blockchain Technology in Corporate Governance", OECD Corporate 
Governance Working Papers, No. 21, OECD Publishing, Paris. 
Angelis, J. and Ribeiro da Silva E. (2019) Blockchain adoption: A value driver perspective, Business Horizons, 
Volume 62, Issue 3, 307-314. 
Antikainen M., Uusitalo T. andKivikytö-Reponen P. (2018) Digitalisation as an Enabler of Circular Economy, 
Procedia CIRP, Volume 73: 45-49. 
Antonopulos A. (2017) Mastering Bitcoin, Sebastopol, O’ Really Media. 
Arruñada, B. (2018) “Blockchain’s Struggle to Deliver Impersonal Exchange,” Minnesota Journal of Law, 
Science & Technology, 19, 55-105. 
Askoxylakis, I.G., Alexandris G. and Demetriou G. (2017) “Blockchain-enabled Intelligent Asset Exchange for a 
Circular Economy.” ERCIM News 2017. 
Berg, A. and Berg, C. (2017) Exit, Voice, and Forking. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3081291 
or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3081291 [Accessed 1st May 2020]  
Braungart M. and McDonough W. (2002) Cradle to Cradle, Remaking the way we make things, New York,  
North Point Press. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
323 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Bruni L. (2006) Civil Happiness – Economics and Human Flourishing in historical perspective, London, 
Routledge. 
Buterin V. (2013) Ethereum: A Next-Generation Generalized Smart Contract and Decentralized Application 
Platform. 
Available 
at: 
http://web.archive.org/web/20160519202254/http://vbuterin.com:80/ethereum.html [Accessed 
13th Aprile 2020]  
Casado-Vara R., Prieto J., De la Prieta F. and Corchado J. M. (2018) How blockchain improves the supply chain: 
case study alimentary supply chain, Procedia Computer Science, 134, 393–398. 
Catalini 
C., 
Gans 
J.S., 
(2017) 
Some 
simple 
economics 
of 
the 
Blockchain, 
Available 
at: 
https://www.nber.org/papers/w22952 [Accessed 11 January 2020). 
Cavalcanti Sá de Abreu M. and Ceglia D. (2018) On the implementation of a circular economy: The role of 
institutional capacity-building through industrial symbiosis, Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 
138: 99-109. 
Christidis K., Devetsiokiotis M. (2016) Blockchains and Smart Contracts for the Internet of Things, in IEEE 
Access, 4. 
Coase R. (1960) The problem of social cost, Journal of Law and Economics, vol. III. 
Conoscenti, M., Vetrò A. and De Martin J.C. (2016) Blockchain for the Internet of Things: A systematic 
literature review. 2016 IEEE/ACS 13th International Conference of Computer Systems and 
Applications (AICCSA), 2016: 1-6. 
Dapp, M.M. (2018). Toward a Sustainable Circular Economy Powered by Community-Based Incentive 
Systems. Business Transformation through Blockchain, 153–181.  
Davidson S., De Filippi P. and Potts J. (2016) Economics of Blockchain. Proceedings of Public Choice 
Conference, May 2016, Fort Lauderdale, United States.. 
De Filippi, P. (2018) "Blockchain: A Global Infrastructure for Distributed Governance and Local 
Manufacturing" in Diez, T. (Ed.) The Mass Distribution of Almost Everything. Institute for Advanced 
Architecture of Catalonia, Spain.  
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2015) Towards the Circular Economy Vol. 1: an economic and business rationale 
for 
an 
accelerated 
transition. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/publications/towards-the-circular-economy-vol-1-an-
economic-and-business-rationale-for-an-accelerated-transition 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2016) Intelligent Assets: unlocking the circular economy potential. Available at: 
https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/assets/downloads/publications/EllenMacArthurFound
ation_Intelligent_Assets_080216.pdf [Accessed 22 June 2021] 
Evans, D. (2014) Economic Aspects of Bitcoin and Other Decentralized Public-Ledger Currency Platforms, 
(Coase-Sandor Institute for Law & Economics Working Paper No. 685). 
Faber, N. and Hadders, H. (2016) Towards a blockchain enabled social contract for sustainability - Creating a 
fair and just operating system for humanity. First International Conference on New Business Models, 
2016. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/303923175_Towards_a_blockchain_enabled_social_co
ntract_for_sustainability_-
_Creating_a_fair_and_just_operating_system_for_humanity?enrichId=rgreq-
ed81c1958f0f596caf695773419dd1d4-
XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzMwMzkyMzE3NTtBUzozNzI0NDUxMTk4Mjc5NjlAMTQ2NTgw
OTI0NDM3OQ%3D%3D&el=1_x_2&_esc=publicationCoverPdf [Accessed 22 June 2021] 
Faber, N. and Jonker, J. (2019) At Your Service: How Can Blockchain Be Used to Address Societal Challenges? 
In: Treiblmaier H., Beck R. (eds) Business Transformation through Blockchain. Cham, Palgrave 
Macmillan.  
Francisco, K. and Swanson, D. (2018) "The Supply Chain Has No Clothes: Technology Adoption of Blockchain 
for Supply Chain Transparency." Logistics 2: 1- 2. 
Geissdoerfer M., Morioka S.N., Monteiro de Carvalho M. and Evans S. (2018) Business models and supply 
chains for the circular economy, Journal of Cleaner Production, 190: 712-721. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
324 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Hamida E.B., Brousmiche K.L., Levard H., Thea E. (2017) Blockchain for Enterprise: Overview, Opportunities 
and Challenges, ICWMC 2017.  
Hawken P., Lovins A., Lovins L. H. (2011) Capitalismo Naturale – la prossima rivoluzione industriale, Milano, 
Edizioni Ambiente. 
Hayek, F.A., (1945) “The Use of Knowledge in Society”, American Economic Review, 35(4). 
Kalmykova Y., Sadagopan M. and Rosado L. (2018) Circular economy – From review of theories and practices 
to development of implementation tools, Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 135: 190-201. 
Kirchherr J., Reike D. and Hekkert M. (2017) Conceptualizing the circular economy: An analysis of 114 
definitions, Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 127: 221-232. 
Kirchherr J., Piscicelli L., Bour R., Kostense-Smit E., Muller J., Huibrechtse-Truijens A. and Hekkert M. (2018) 
Barriers to the Circular Economy: Evidence from the European Union (EU), Ecological Economics, 
150: 264-272. 
Kouhizadeh, M., Zhu, Q., & Sarkis, J. (2019). Blockchain and the circular economy: potential tensions and 
critical reflections from practice. Production Planning & Control, 1–17.  
Kouhizadeh, M., Sarkis, J. And Qingyun Z. (2019) At the Nexus of Blockchain Technology, the Circular 
Economy, and Product Deletion. Applied Sciences. 9. 1712. 
Lacy P., Rutqvist J., Lamonica B. (2016) Circular Economy – Dallospreco al valore, Milano, Egea. 
Markey-Towler B. (2018) Anarchy, Blockchain and Utopia - A theory of political-socioeconomic systems 
organised using Blockchain. Available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3095343 [Accessed 12 may 
2020] 
McKinsey Center for Business and Environment (2016) The circular economy: Moving from theory to practice. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/sustainability/our-insights/the-
circular-economy-moving-from-theory-to-practice [Accessed 12 October 2020] 
McKnight, L. W., Etwaru R. and Yihan Y. (2017) Commodifying Trust: Trusted Commerce Policy Intersecting 
Blockchain and Internet of Things. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2944466 [Accessed 
22 September 2020] 
Mougayar W. (2016) The business blockchain, Hoboken, Wiley & Sons. 
Murray A., Skene, K. and Haynes, K. (2015) The Circular Economy: An Interdisciplinary Exploration of the 
Concept and Application in a Global Context. Journal of Business Ethics, 140:369–380. 
Nakamoto, 
S. 
(2008) 
“Bitcoin: 
A 
peer-to-peer 
electronic 
cash 
system”. 
Available 
at: 
https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf [Accessed 18 January 2020] 
Novak, M. (2018) The Implications of Blockchain for Income Inequality. Available at SSRN: 
https://ssrn.com/abstract=3140440 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3140440 [Accessed 13 
February 2020] 
Pauli G. (2015) Blue Economy 2.0, Milano, Edizioni ambiente. 
Pearce D.W. Turner R.K (1991) Economics of natural resources and the environment, American Journal of 
Agricultural Economics. 
Pilkington, M. (2016) ‘Blockchain Technology: Principles and Applications’ in F.X. Olleros and M. Zhegu. (eds) 
Research Handbook on Digital Transformations, Edward Elgar. 
Posner R.A. (1975) "The Economic Approach to Law," Texas Law Review, 53, 757. 
Reike D., Vermeulen W.J.V. and Witjes S. (2018) The circular economy: New or Refurbished as CE 3.0? — 
Exploring Controversies in the Conceptualization of the Circular Economy through a Focus on History 
and Resource Value Retention Options, Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 135: 246-264. 
Reyna A., Martín C., Chen J., Soler E. and Díaz M. (2018) On blockchain and its integration with IoT. Challenges 
and opportunities, Future Generation Computer Systems, 88: 173-190.   
Rifkin, J. (2014) The Zero Marginal Cost Society: The Internet of Things, the Collaborative Commons, and the 
Eclipse of Capitalism, London, Palgrave MacMillan.  
Rifkin, J. (2012) The third industrial revolution: How the internet, green electricity, and 3-d printing are 
ushering in a sustainable era of distributed capitalism, World Financial Review 1.1: 4052-4057. 
Ritzén, S. andSandström Ö., G. (2017) Barriers to the Circular Economy - Integration of Perspectives and 
Domains. In: Procedia CIRP: Paper presented at 50th CIRP Conference on Manufacturing Systems 
2017, 3 May 2017 through 5 May 2017 (pp. 7-12). Elsevier B.V. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
325 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Rubio, M.A., Tarazona, G.M. and Contreras, L. (2018) Big Data and Blockchain Basis for Operating a New 
Archetype of Supply Chain. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 659–669.  
Swan, M. (2015) Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy. Sebastopol, O’Reilly Media. 
Tapscott D. and Tapscott A. (2016) Blockchain revolution, New York, Penguin Random House LLC.  
Vogel, J., Hagen, S. and Thomas, O. (2019) Discovering Blockchain for Sustainable Product-Service Systems to 
enhance the Circular Economy. Available at: https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/301380988.pdf 
[Accessed 13 November 2020] 
World Economic Forum (2014) Towards the Circular Economy: Accelerating the scale-up across global supply 
chains.  
Zheng, Z., Xie, S., Dai, H.N., Chen, X. and Wang, H. (2017) An Overview of Blockchain Technology: Architecture, 
Consensus, and Future Trends. Conference paper 6th IEEE International Congress on Big Data. 
Zheng, Z., Xie, S., Dai, H.N., Chen, X. and Wang, H. (2017) Blockchain Challenges and Opportunities: A Survey. 
International Journal of Web and Grid Services. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
326 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Consumer perspectives on 
refurbished products: A systematic 
literature review 
 
Radmila Štangová1,*  
1Department of Corporate Economy, Faculty of Economics and 
Administration, Masaryk University, Brno, Czechia 
*radmila.stangova@econ.muni.cz  
Abstract 
A transition to a circular economy is believed to be able to harmonize economic growth with 
environmental protection. To achieve this, a shift is required not only on the production side, but 
also on the consumption side. However, consumers may be reluctant to abandon traditional 
consumption patterns. This paper focuses on consumer perspectives on refurbishment, which is 
one of the prominent strategies in the circular economy. Refurbishment prolongs products' 
lifetimes by bringing them to a good working condition, which helps to retain value in products for 
a longer time. In addition to selling refurbished products, the potential of refurbishment in the 
circular economy also seems to be in combination with access-based business models, within which 
products are refurbished between leasing cycles. The purpose of this paper is to bring together and 
analyze existing literature on consumer acceptance of refurbished products through a systematic 
literature review. The systematic literature review was guided by the following research question: 
What is known about consumer acceptance of refurbished products? Four databases were 
searched, and the final sample consists of 28 studies. The results are organized into five themes 
identified in the reviewed literature, namely drivers, barriers, other factors influencing consumer 
acceptance of refurbished products, differences between product categories, and comparison of 
refurbishment and other sustainable strategies. Finally, suggestions for future research are 
presented.  
Keywords  
Consumer acceptance, refurbishment, circular economy, systematic literature review 
Introduction 
A linear model of production and consumption, in which raw materials are used to produce goods, 
which are then sold, used, and discarded, has dominated the evolution of global economy (Ellen 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
327 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
MacArthur Foundation, 2015). However, growing challenges of this model are causing a shift 
towards seeing materials as assets to be preserved instead of their continuous consumption 
(Stahel, 2016). Harmonizing economic growth and environmental protection might be achieved 
through a transition to circular economy (Lieder & Rashid, 2016). Circular economy can be defined 
as: ”a regenerative system in which resource input and waste, emission, and energy leakage are 
minimised by slowing, closing, and narrowing material and energy loops. This can be achieved 
through long-lasting design, maintenance, repair, reuse, remanufacturing, refurbishing, and 
recycling“ (Geissdoerfer et al., 2017:p.766).  
This article focuses on refurbishment, i.e. a process of returning a product to a good working 
condition, which can be done by replacing or repairing major components that are faulty or close 
to failure, and by making ‘cosmetic’ changes to update its appearance. In general, the warranty as 
well as the performance might be less compared to a new product (Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 
2013). These products are also usually priced lower than new ones, Mugge, Jockin and Bocken 
(2017) suggest that the difference is approximately 30% of the price of a new product.  
Refurbishment has potential environmental benefits since it aims at retaining value in products and 
materials and thus contributes to reduction and slowing down of flows of energy, materials and 
goods (Hunka, Linder & Habibi, 2021). Bressanelli, Saccani and Perona (2022) showed that the 
refurbishment of washing machines allows to achieve a reduction of about 25 kg CO2 eq. per year 
per household, together with a lower average total cost of ownership compared to a linear model.  
Refurbishment (together with remanufacturing, repair and direct reuse) was identified at the G7 
meeting as one of the priorities to be tackled by the alliance (European Union, 2017). In 2018, the 
global market for refurbished consumer electronics was estimated to be 10 billion dollars (Rallo, 
2018) and the demand is growing. For example, the demand for certain categories of high-tech 
products (connected watches and game consoles) in France increased by more than 200% between 
February 2021 and February 2022 (Statista, 2022). The potential of refurbishment does not lie only 
in selling refurbished products. It also seems to be a viable strategy in combination with access-
based business models where the product is refurbished between leasing cycles (see, e.g., Sumter, 
Bakker & Balkenende, 2018). 
Despite this growing popularity, consumers still perceive many barriers to refurbished products. In 
fact, there are some groups of consumers who would never purchase such products (Akkucuk, 
2011; Esmaeilian et al., 2021; Mahmoodi and Heydari, 2021). As suggested by Camacho-Otero et 
al. (2018), consumer acceptance is a critical factor hindering the diffusion of circular business 
models since it requires important changes in consumption such as, in case of refurbishment, giving 
up newness. Based on a systematic literature review on circular economy, Lahane, Prajapati and 
Kant (2021) concluded that consumer behavior towards used products is still a not much explored 
area. The purpose of this paper is therefore to bring together and analyze existing literature on 
consumer acceptance of refurbished products. This paper addresses the following research 
question: What is known about consumer acceptance of refurbished products? The paper is 
structured as follows. First, the process of literature search and selection is described, then, the 
results are presented. The results are organized into five sections reflecting the themes identified 
during the review process. They are focused on the factors that influence the acceptance of 
refurbished products, differences between product categories, and a comparison of refurbishment 
and other sustainable strategies. The results are followed by discussion with suggestions for future 
research.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
328 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Methods 
A literature search was conducted using four databases, namely Scopus, Web of Science, ProQuest 
and Ebsco. The search query is shown in Table 1. Studies eligible for inclusion were those (1) written 
in English language, (2) with a considerable focus on the consumer perspective on refurbished 
products, (3) reporting the results of a primary research. Papers focusing on refurbished buildings 
were not taken into account, which is also reflected in the search query. Grey literature such as 
master theses was also included. This decision was motivated by the fact that the literature on the 
subject is quite scarce and also by the fact that including grey literature in the systematic reviews 
is believed to better inform practice (Adams, Smart & Huff, 2017).  
Table 1 – Search query 
refurbish* AND 
 
 
consumer* 
OR user* 
AND 
attitude OR 
acceptance OR 
perception OR 
willingness OR 
adoption OR 
motivation* OR 
barrier* OR driver* 
AND 
NOT 
building* 
 
The initial search produced 433 results, of which 107 were from Scopus, 71 from Web of Science, 
19 from ProQuest and 236 from Ebsco. After removal of duplicates, and title and abstract scanning, 
40 papers were selected. 4 of them were excluded due to inaccessibility, 8 were excluded based on 
fulltext reading and 2 were excluded because they were conference papers that were later 
extended to journal papers containing more information, and these journal papers were included. 
Two additional papers were identified through a backward search. In total, 28 studies were 
included in the review. A table containing all the reviewed studies and the information on the 
product categories they focused on can be found in the appendix.  
Results 
This section focuses first on drivers and barriers consumers perceive towards refurbished products. 
The following part is dedicated to the influencing factors that are not classified as drivers or barriers. 
These are divided into three sections; the first one deals with product appearance, the second one 
focuses on information, knowledge and awareness, and the last one contains other factors such as 
brand, seller, warranty and distribution. After the influencing factors, differences between various 
product categories are presented. Finally, the last part of the Results sections is devoted to 
comparison of refurbishment and other sustainable strategies.  
Drivers 
Both environmental and financial benefits are often cited as main drivers for purchasing refurbished 
products (Holmström & Böhlin, 2017; Koistila, 2020; Nasiri & Shokouhyar,  2021; Ratering, 2020; 
Sharifi & Shokouhyar 2021; van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016; Wallner, Magnier, & Mugge 
2020). Furthermore, characteristics such as environmental concern (Wallner, Magnier & Mugge, 
2021) and pro-environmental attitude (Harms & Linton, 2016) were also found to have an impact 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
329 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
on acceptance of these products. However, the majority of authors agree that the most important 
motivation to buy refurbished products are financial benefits (Chen, Wang & Jia, 2020; Mugge, 
Safari & Balkenende, 2017; Nasiri & Shokouhyar, 2021; Ratering, 2020; Snel, 2021; van Weelden, 
Mugge & Bakker, 2016). In line with this, Liu and Tsaur (2020) showed that government subsidies 
in interaction with attitude positively influence purchase intention. The importance of price 
reduction is highlighted by van Weelden, Mugge and Bakker (2016) stating that most of their 
interview participants would opt for a new rather than refurbished mobile phone if they did not 
consider money. To attract consumers and become the reason to choose refurbished, the price 
difference must be significant (Mugge, Safari & Balkenende, 2017; Ratering, 2020). Even those who 
say that they would not be influenced by price reduction might change their mind when the price 
is low enough (Snel, 2021). On the other hand, van Weelden, Mugge and Bakker (2016) point out 
that consumers might perceive low price as an indicator of poor quality of refurbished products, 
and that an optimal price balance should be found. In contrast with previously mentioned findings, 
based on the analysis of Twitter data, Sharifi and Shokouhyar (2021) concluded that environmental 
factors appear to be a more important motivator than financial ones. Mugge, Jockin and Bocken 
(2017) even found no effect of perceived financial benefits on purchase intention, while perceived 
environmental benefits were a significant predictor.  
It seems that consumer groups do not attach equal importance to financial benefits. Although, in 
general, willingness to pay for refurbished products is lower than for new ones (Akkucuk, 2011; 
Harms & Linton, 2016), there is a fraction of consumers who would be willing to pay a premium 
price for refurbished (Akkucuk, 2011; Boyer et al., 2021). Duan and Aloysius (2019) found that in 
some situations, highly environmentally involved consumers perceive refurbished products to have 
superior quality and have a greater willingness to pay a premium than for new products. From the 
perspective of economic situation, Sharifi and Shokouhyar (2021) showed that while in developed 
countries, environmental motivations are slightly more important than financial motivations, the 
opposite applies to developing countries.  
In addition to these two main drivers, van Weelden, Mugge, and Bakker (2016) identified several 
more – consumers might be attracted by some unique features refurbished products have and 
available new ones are missing, or, conversely, appreciate the absence of undesirable features new 
products are equipped with. In most studies, it appears that the benefits of refurbished products 
are considered in relation to new products. However, when comparing refurbished with second-
hand, an additional benefit consumers perceive is (performance) quality (Holmström & Böhlin, 
2017; Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016).  
Barriers 
A major factor hindering the acceptance of refurbished products is perceived risk. While some 
authors report a negative impact of an overall perceived risk - whether on willingness to pay for 
refurbished (Harms & Linton, 2016) or on attitude, perceived value and purchase intention (Agostini 
et al., 2021), others focus separately on its components. Consumers worry about performance risk 
related to product's functional state or/and shorter lifetime (Holmström & Böhlin, 2017; Mugge et 
al., 2018; Mugge, Jockin, & Bocken, 2017; Koistila, 2020; Ratering, 2020; Snel, 2021; van Weelden, 
Mugge & Bakker, 2016). This might be reflected in the finding of Bressanelli, Perona and Saccani 
(2019) who showed that consumer acceptance of a refurbished washing machine decreases as the 
number of washing cycles per year increases which, according to the authors, might suggest that 
consumers who wash more often are afraid of breakdowns of the refurbished machine. However, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
330 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
this relationship was not confirmed by Bressanelli, Saccani and Perona (2022). Another important 
risk is connected to fears about the product becoming obsolete faster than a new one, for instance, 
due to rapid technological progress (Holmström & Böhlin, 2017; Koistila, 2020; Mugge et al., 2018; 
Mugge, Safari & Balkenende, 2017; Ratering, 2020; van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker; 2016). Mugge 
et al. (2018) give an example of a concern that refurbished phones would not be able to handle 
future software updates. Some consumers perceive a financial risk, i.e., a fear that a refurbished 
device would entail service costs or that the money would not be well spent (Holmström & Böhlin, 
2017; Koistila, 2020; van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016). Time risk represents the time consumer 
loses if a product breaks down (Holmström & Böhlin, 2017; van Weelden, Mugge, & Bakker, 2016).  
Since refurbished products may have been previously owned by someone else, consumers might 
perceive that they are ‘contaminated’ by traces of the previous user (van Weelden, Mugge & 
Bakker, 2016; Wallner, Magnier & Mugge, 2021). This contamination can be related to hygiene 
(Mugge, Safari & Balkenende, 2017; Ratering, 2020; Snel, 2021). In this regard, Gülserliler, 
Blackburn, and Van Wassenhove (2021) found that respondents who showed preference for leasing 
a refurbished washing machine had a lower level of disgust than those who opted for leasing or 
buying new machines. In case of digital devices, certain consumers fear possible digital 
contamination, i.e., the data of the previous owner still in the memory or even viruses and Trojans 
(Mugge et al., 2018; Mugge, Safari & Balkenende, 2017; van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016). For 
personal products, such as wallets, consumers might feel unease about perceived traces of 
personality of the former owner (Mugge, Safari & Balkenende, 2017). Wallner, Magnier and Mugge 
(2021) came to a conclusion that perceived contamination risk has a stronger effect on purchase 
intention toward refurbished products than environmental awareness. That is why they suggest 
that more research should focus on strategies to reduce contamination, which they attempted in 
their subsequent study (Wallner, Magnier & Mugge, 2022). Based on a choice-based conjoint 
analysis considering refurbished headphones, they showed that out of six attributes, the two most 
important ones were related to contamination, namely, eliminating signs of aesthetic wear and 
tear, and replacing the ear-cushions. Interestingly, these attributes were even more important than 
price reduction and extended warranty.  
Another important barrier identified in the literature is lack of awareness, which can mean that 
consumers are unaware that refurbished products exist and, therefore, do not even consider 
purchasing them (Holmström & Böhlin, 2017; Ratering, 2020; Snel, 2021; van Weelden, Mugge & 
Bakker, 2016). Unawareness can also be connected to the misunderstanding of what refurbishment 
means. Some consumers associate it with ‘second-hand’, which can lead to doubts about quality 
(Snel, 2021; van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016) and unawareness about warranty rights (Snel, 
2021). In addition to lack of knowledge about refurbishment, Holmström and Böhlin (2017) also 
mention lack of knowledge about technology and resulting inability to compare specifications and 
therefore opting for new products as a safer option. Similarly, Van Weelden, Mugge and Bakker 
(2016) state that a low confidence in one's ability to judge the quality of a product increases the 
perceived risk. These authors also identified lack of availability as a barrier. As they explain, 
searching for refurbished products might be less convenient and different from habitual purchasing 
behavior which may prevent consumers from considering them. Holmström and Böhlin (2017), 
however, argue that their respondents did not consider lack of availability and visibility as an 
important barrier; they believe that it is rather the lack of awareness that hinders consumers from 
seeing the availability.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
331 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
One of the reasons not to buy refurbished products identified by several authors lies in the fact that 
consumers would miss the thrill of newness (Holmström & Böhlin, 2017; Ratering, 2020; van 
Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016). Other authors showed that the choice of refurbished is 
negatively influenced by the perceived importance between old and new  (Chen, Wang & Jia, 2020) 
and consumer innovativeness (Mugge, Jockin & Bocken, 2017). Esmaeilian et al. (2021) found that 
the chance of purchasing a refurbished phone instead of a new one increases with older technology.  
Other factors 
Product appearance 
There is a stream of literature focusing on product appearance. The presence of visual signs of wear 
and tear influences the acceptance of refurbished products (Mugge et al., 2018; Ratering, 2020; 
Snel, 2021; van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016; Wallner, Magnier & Mugge, 2022). Consumers 
tend to trust a product that does not look used (Ratering, 2020). As explained by Snel (2021), visible 
scratches might be associated with technological failure and create doubts about functionality. 
Mugge et al. (2018) report that their interview participants who were presented the phone with 
wear and tear showed more hesitation toward buying a refurbished smartphone than those who 
were shown an as-new phone. The importance of eliminating signs of aesthetic wear and tear is 
highlighted by Wallner, Magnier and Mugge (2022), who showed that in case of refurbished 
headphones, it was valued more than price or warranty. Snel (2021) proposes that the location of 
scratches is also important - scratches on the buttons or attachment can be associated with 
a reduced functionality. Acceptance can be hindered even more if the scratches are on the locations 
not consistent with the intended use, which raises concerns as to whether internal components 
have been broken.  
In terms of product design, consumers seem to prefer robust designs (Ratering, 2020; Snel, 2021; 
Wallner, Magnier & Mugge, 2020) that do not contain many loose, fragile parts (Ratering, 2020; 
Wallner, Magnier & Mugge, 2020). Products that look repairable are also more desirable since 
consumers assume that they are more likely to be refurbished successfully (Wallner, Magnier & 
Mugge, 2020). Materials such as metal, wood, leather or glass are appreciated (Ratering, 2020; 
Wallner, Magnier & Mugge, 2020), whilst plastic might be perceived as unsustainable and cheap 
(Ratering, 2020) or less durable (Wallner, Magnier & Mugge, 2020). Wallner, Magnier and Mugge 
(2021) found that durability and attractiveness positively predict purchase intentions of refurbished 
headphones and blenders, however, the influence of these characteristics was not larger than in 
case of new products, which suggests that they might be universally desired features.  
Wallner, Magnier and Mugge (2020) examined different design styles and came to conclusion that 
neo-retro design and simplistic design might improve consumers’ evaluations of refurbished 
products. Both design styles were considered timeless. Moreover, a simplistic design was preferred 
because it was not connected to any particular historical time and reminded of the designs used by 
high-quality brands. Neo-retro design evoked feelings of nostalgia, was seen as less vulnerable to 
trends, looked solid and durable, and reminded of old products that were ”made to last”. 
Information, knowledge, awareness 
The tendency to buy refurbished products is positively influenced by the environmental awareness 
of consumers (Mahmoodi & Heydari, 2021). Although Liu and Tsaur (2020) did not find a significant 
direct effect of green awareness on purchase intention, they report that awareness positively 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
332 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
influences attitude which, in turn, impacts purchase intention. In addition, they showed that green 
awareness can be increased by green marketing. In contrast, Harms and Linton (2016) report no 
significant impact of general knowledge of environmental issues nor knowledge about recycling on 
willingness to pay for refurbished products. This incongruence might be partly caused by different 
operationalization of awareness or knowledge, or it is possible that awareness translates into 
attitude or purchase intention, but not into greater willingness to pay.  
Another important type of awareness is knowledge about refurbishment. Familiarity and 
understanding of the procedures executed during refurbishment can result in greater trust in these 
products (Mugge, Safari & Balkenende, 2017). As shown by Mugge, Jockin and Bocken (2017), 
awareness of refurbishing has a positive significant impact on purchase intention and providing 
more information on this process can be a successful incentive to increase purchase intention. This 
is supported by Koistila (2020), suggesting that after clarifying the concept of refurbishment to her 
interview participants, some of them changed their minds and showed a greater willingness to 
purchase such products than at the beginning of the interview. On the other hand, Chen, Wang and 
Jia (2020) found that knowledge of refurbished products nor prior experience do not influence 
willingness to pay.  
The need for information on refurbishing procedure as well as on product-specific issues such as its 
status and use history is also pointed out by van Weelden, Mugge and Bakker (2016). However, 
Mugge et al. (2018) argue that providing information about prior use might in some cases negatively 
influence the evaluation of refurbished products. Through an experiment, they showed that when 
there were no visual signs of wear and tear, participants evaluated refurbished mobile phones more 
negatively when they were provided verbal information about prior use. The authors believe that 
it is due to the incongruence between verbal and visual information, which makes participants more 
aware of prior use. When visual signs of wear and tear were present, verbal information did not 
have an impact on consumer evaluations. Duan and Aloysius (2019) showed that consumers' 
willingness to pay for refurbished products can also be influenced by information about the 
sustainable practices of the firm. Presenting the information about firm's sustainable investment 
generated a higher willingness to pay a premium for consumers with a higher level of 
environmental involvement. In contrast to pro-attitudinal information, counterattitudinal 
information (about reducing sustainable investment) did not have any effect.  
Information can also be communicated through labels. To assure consumers about the quality of 
refurbished products, van Weelden, Mugge and Bakker (2016) suggest using an industry wide 
quality label. Harms and Linton (2016) focused on eco-certification and came to conclusion that 
while the willingness to pay for eco-certified refurbished products is still lower than for the new 
ones, it is higher compared to non-certified refurbished products, and it is positively related to pro-
environmental attitude. They further propose that eco-labels might provide some information 
about quality even if it is not explicitly covered in eco-certification. After introducing eco-labels in 
their study, perceived risk lost part of its impact on willingness to pay. Boyer et al. (2021) 
investigated the impact of the Circular economy score, a hypothetical score indicating what 
proportion of a product is made of reused or refurbished parts. They suggest that consumers are 
willing to pay more for a slightly circular product than for a new one, however, it tends to disappear 
or even decrease at higher levels of circularity. When all other attributes were held constant, 
circular products seemed to be preferred by a greater number of consumers. Another type of label 
that appears in the literature is a ‘sparkling clean label’ that should indicate that the refurbished 
product was properly cleaned. However, consumers attributed relatively little importance to this 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
333 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
label compared to other strategies aiming at reducing contamination (Wallner, Magnier & Mugge, 
2022).  
Brand, seller, distribution, warranty 
Some authors (van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016; Wallner, Magnier & Mugge, 2020) mention 
access to a certain brand for a lower price as a motivation to buy refurbished products. Moreover, 
brand image can help consumers evaluate the risks and benefits of these products (van Weelden, 
Mugge & Bakker, 2016). As proposed by Liu and Tsaur (2020), brand equity has a positive impact 
on purchase intention toward refurbished smartphones.  
Confidence in refurbished products can also be supported by a good image of the seller and retail 
experience (van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016). To check whether a seller is reliable, consumers 
tend to look at reviews (Snel, 2021). Agostini et al. (2021) found that the importance paid to seller 
reputation is negatively connected to the perceived value of refurbished smartphones, which the 
authors explain by the current low level of seller reputation in the refurbished smartphone market. 
Another important factor when purchasing refurbished products is warranty (Boyer et al., 2021; 
Ratering, 2020; Sharifi and Shokouhyar, 2021; van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016). Warranty can 
contribute to trust in product's functional quality (Mugge et al.,2018) and to reducing concern 
(Mugge, Safari & Balkenende, 2017). Mahmoodi and Heydari (2021) report that 80% of their 
respondents would be more likely to purchase a refurbished product if a warranty was offered. 
Nevertheless, they also argue that money-back guarantee was a preferred option.  
There are several other factors that are mentioned less frequently in the reviewed studies. 
Regarding distribution, van Weelden, Mugge and Bakker (2016) argue that the existence of 
a physical store can contribute to decreasing perceived risk connected to refurbished products. 
According to Agostini et al. (2021), the importance paid to distribution (in terms of existence of 
multiple channels) has a positive effect on perceived value and attitude and negatively impacts 
perceived risk. Positive attitude towards refurbished products can also be reinforced by a good 
previous experience with such products (Snel, 2021; van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016) and 
positive evaluations by other people (van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016). Mahmoodi and 
Heydari (2021) also point to the positive effect of perceived consumer effectiveness which reflects 
a positive feeling about refurbished products and the belief that using these products contributes 
to reducing pollution.  
Differences between product categories 
Mugge, Safari and Balkenende (2017) investigated consumer acceptance of 30 product categories 
and came to conclusion that the highest number of participants would accept a refurbished 
wardrobe, followed by products such as table, suitcase, office chair, drill,  coffee maker, etc. 
Washing machine, laptop or smartphone were also among categories that would be accepted quite 
well. In contrast, refurbished electric toothbrush, kettle, computer mouse or sunglasses were 
judged as the least desirable categories. This is in line with the findings of Mahmoodi and Heydari 
(2021) who showed that consumers had the lowest willingness to buy refurbished personal 
products (including electric toothbrush and dinnerware). As they explain, this rejection is caused 
mainly by concerns about harmfulness of such products for consumers' health. In addition to 
hygienic concerns, personal products might be considered too personal (Mugge, Safari & 
Balkenende, 2017). According to Mugge, Safari and Balkenende (2017), consumers also have some 
reservations regarding food-related product categories. This is only partly supported by Ratering 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
334 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
(2020) who focused on home appliances and found that while products such as kettle, toaster and 
blender are indeed less acceptable, it does not apply to large appliances such as oven or fridge.  
Essoussi and Linton (2010)10 propose that willingness to pay for refurbished products is associated 
with the level of their functional risk. As their findings suggest, consumers are willing to pay a higher 
price for product categories with lower functional risk such as recycled paper or reused single use 
camera compared to refurbished cell phone, printer/fax or auto part. Similarly, Harms and Linton 
(2016) state that refurbished tires have the most reduced willingness to pay, which they explain by 
the fact that among product categories taken into account, the failure of this one would have the 
most serious consequences. The difficulty to check functional quality is mentioned by Mugge, Safari 
and Balkenende (2017) as a disadvantage of electronic products which might result in higher 
perceived risk compared to e.g. furniture where it can be relatively easily checked. However, 
Mahmoodi and Heydari (2021) report that technology products have the highest rate of acceptance 
(among household, personal and luxury products). Essoussi and Linton (2010) also suggest that 
products with higher levels of functional risk have a narrower switching range, which means that 
consumers switch between purchasing and not purchasing over a small price range. Nonetheless, 
the findings made by Akkucuk (2011) do not confirm this.  
Product categories also differ in terms of attributes that are important to consumers. For instance, 
the greenness of products is not considered very important in case of personal products even for 
the consumers with a high level of environmental awareness. This group of consumers appreciates 
greenness more in household products, but it is still less important than quality (Mahmoodi & 
Heydari, 2021). Regarding appearance, Mugge, Safari and Balkenende (2017) argue that products 
that are visible to others or express identity should look new while utilitarian products would be 
accepted even with signs of wear and tear. Based on a conjoint analysis, Boyer et al. (2021) showed 
that appearance is a more important attribute for a mobile phone than for a vacuum cleaner. Chen, 
Wang and Jia (2020) compared MP4 as a hedonic product and cartridge as a functional product and 
found that importance paid to brand and importance paid to price only influence willingness to pay 
for refurbished MP4.  
Refurbishment and other sustainable strategies 
A few authors focused on comparing consumer perceptions of refurbishment and other sustainable 
strategies. Chen, Wang and Jia (2020) found that unlike remanufactured MP4 and cartridge, 
willingness to pay for refurbished ones is negatively influenced by importance paid to quality and 
in case of a MP4, also by importance paid to brand. This result might suggest that refurbished 
products entail more worries about quality. However, it should be noted that in this study, it was 
emphasized that the refurbished products were refurbished by a third party, which may have 
influenced the results. When comparing consumer acceptance of buying a refurbished washing 
machine and a pay-per-wash business model, in which users do not own the machine but only pay 
for the service, a refurbishment model seems acceptable for more consumers (Bressanelli, Perona 
& Saccani, 2019; Bressanelli, Saccani & Perona, 2022). Among consumers who would lease 
a washing machine, those who chose leasing new have a higher level of disgust and, interestingly, 
 
10  It should be noted that these authors do not investigate only refurbished products, some product 
categories in their study are recycled (paper), retreated (tire), refilled (toner), reused (single use camera) and 
they are all compared to each other. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
335 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
a slightly higher pride of ownership than consumers who would lease a refurbished machine 
(Gülserliler, Blackburn & Van Wassenhove, 2021).  
Agost and Vergara (2020) investigated consumer impressions of six wardrobes representing 
different sustainability design strategies, namely refurbishment, adaptability to new functions, 
durability, personalization, easy maintenance and flexible design. Consumers showed lower levels 
of product attachment and willingness to keep for the refurbished wardrobe than for all other 
design strategies. Moreover, refurbished wardrobe had lower evaluation in the aspects such as high 
quality, expensive-looking, trust in purchase. On the other hand, it scored higher in respect for the 
environment and sustainability. Borin, Lindsey-Mullikin and Krishnan (2013) attempted to compare 
purchase intentions for refurbished products, (new) green products and products from a company 
that engages in green processes. The authors came to conclusion that these strategies have an 
impact on purchase intentions, however, it is not important which one of them a company uses. 
They further propose that these green strategies are important mainly for pro-environmentally 
oriented customers. This group of customers had the highest purchase intentions towards 
refurbished products, although the difference from the other green strategies was not statistically 
significant. 
Discussion  
The purpose of this paper was to put together and analyze existing literature on consumer 
acceptance of refurbished products. There seems to be a consensus on two main motivations to 
purchase such products, namely environmental and financial benefit. The latter is believed to be 
the most important driver by many authors, however, there are situations where consumers would 
pay a premium for refurbished. Since it was shown that refurbished products do not always have 
to be viewed as inferior to new ones, further research should focus more on strategies how to 
increase perceived value of refurbished products. There appears to be some potential in labels, 
however, this is also an underexplored area in this context which is supported by the fact that out 
of four studies dealing with labels, each one focused on a different one (quality, eco, circular, clean). 
It might be worthwhile to assess the potential of a quality label suggested by van Weelden, Mugge 
and Bakker (2016), for instance, through a conjoint analysis.  
The reviewed studies identified numerous potential barriers to acceptance of refurbished products. 
These comprise concerns about functional quality and obsolescence, financial risks, fear of hygienic, 
digital or personal contamination, lack of awareness and missing the thrill of newness. Many of the 
studies dealing with barriers were qualitative, further research could therefore attempt to quantify 
the impact of these barriers and assess their relative importance.  
Several studies focused on product appearance. In this regard, visual wear and tear appears to 
hinder the acceptance of refurbished products. There were some inconsistencies in the reviewed 
studies on this subject. While Mugge, Safari and Balkenende (2017) argue that the ”as new“ look is 
mainly important for products that are seen, and that utilitarian products would be acceptable even 
with some signs of wear and tear, Snel (2021) explains that it may entail concerns about functional 
quality. More research is needed to quantitatively assess the impact of wear and tear on consumer 
preferences in utilitarian products, such as household appliances. There was also no clear 
consensus on the role of knowledge and information. Some authors reported a positive impact, 
some did not find any, and some even showed that providing certain information can be 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
336 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
detrimental to acceptance. Future research could look at the types of awareness that are 
worthwhile to be raised and the types of information that would be helpful in evaluating 
refurbished products.  
In most studies, refurbished products are as if by default compared to new products. It would be 
interesting to enrich the stream of literature comparing refurbishment with other sustainable 
strategies as attempted by several authors cited in this review. More attention should also be paid 
to the acceptance of refurbishment in the context of access-based business models. Moreover, at 
present, many authors focus on refurbished smartphones, thus, there is a potential to deepen the 
knowledge concerning other product categories with different specifics.  
This study has several limitations. Even though refurbishment is different from remanufacturing, 
some authors use the terms interchangeably (van Weelden, Mugge & Bakker, 2016) which might 
have led to the omission of some relevant studies. Furthermore, an extension of the search query 
could have led to a more comprehensive set of studies.  
Conclusion 
Refurbishment can lead to potential savings of material, energy, labour, and capital embedded in 
the product, as well as associated externalities such as greenhouse gas emissions, thus representing 
environmental and also economic benefits (Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 2013). However, to 
achieve these benefits, consumer acceptance is critical (Govindan & Hasanagic, 2018). The aim of 
this systematic literature review was to bring together and analyze existing knowledge on consumer 
acceptance of refurbished products. The final sample consisted of 28 studies. The results were 
organized into five categories reflecting the themes identified during the review, namely drivers, 
barriers, other influencing factors, differences between product categories, and a comparison of 
refurbishment and other sustainable strategies. 
Consumers seem to be motivated mainly by financial and environmental benefits, while the former 
were identified as the strongest driver. By definition, refurbished products are products which have 
been returned to a good working condition (Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 2013), suggesting that 
they might not be ”as new“. In general, this is reflected in a lower willingness to pay for refurbished 
products. However, it was shown that some consumers do not consider refurbished products as 
inferior to new ones, and are even willing to pay a premium.  
Regarding barriers, consumers might have concerns about functional quality, possible 
contamination, financial risk, obsolescence, and their acceptance is also hindered by the lack of 
awareness – not only lack of awareness about the existence of refurbished options, but also 
misunderstanding of refurbishment as such. In addition to motivations and barriers, other 
influencing factors comprise product appearance. In this regard, the reviewed studies focused 
mainly on signs of wear and tear and product design. Other factors revolve around information, 
knowledge and awareness, and factors such as brand image, seller reputation and warranty. 
Although 
most 
of 
the 
reviewed 
studies 
focused 
on 
a single product category, several authors dealt with multiple categories, which allowed to 
discuss the differences between them. Indeed the acceptance of refurbishment is product-specific 
to a certain extent. Finally, a few studies examined consumer perceptions of refurbishment in 
comparison to other sustainable strategies such as remanufacturing, leasing, durable design, 
personalization, etc.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
337 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Several avenues for future research were identified. These involve investigating the potential of 
labels to increase perceived value of refurbished products, assessing the impact of visual wear and 
tear in utilitarian products, focusing on product categories with different specifics than 
smartphones, and devoting more attention to consumer acceptance of refurbishment in the 
context of access-based business models. 
By integrating the insights on consumer acceptance of refurbishment from academic literature, this 
paper could be beneficial for managers wishing to enhance consumer acceptance of refurbished 
products, whether in a ”traditional“ business model based on selling refurbished products, or as 
part of an access-based circular model. However, it should be noted the majority of the reviewed 
studies examined consumer acceptance in the context of the former. It is also hoped that this paper 
will provide value for researchers, by identifying avenues for future research within the topic.  
 
 
Acknowledgements 
This research is supported by the Masaryk University internal grant MUNI/A/1086/2021 
Consumer behavior in the context of Smart PSS.  
References  
Adams, R. J., Smart, P. & Huff, A. S. (2017) Shades of grey: guidelines for working with the grey literature in 
systematic reviews for management and organizational studies. International Journal of 
Management Reviews. 19(4), 432-454. 
Agost, M. J. & Vergara, M. (2020) Principles of Affective Design in Consumers’ Response to Sustainability 
Design Strategies. Sustainability. 12(24), 10573. 
Agostini, L., Bigliardi, B., Filippelli, S. & Galati, F. (2021) Seller reputation, distribution and intention to 
purchase refurbished products. Journal of Cleaner Production. 316, 128296. 
Akkucuk, U. (2011) Combining purchase probabilities and willingness to pay measures: A case on recycled 
products. European Journal of Social Sciences, 23(3), 353-361. 
Borin, N., Lindsey‐Mullikin, J. & Krishnan, R. (2013) An analysis of consumer reactions to green strategies. 
Journal of Product & Brand Management. 22(2), 118-128.  
Boyer, R. H., Hunka, A. D., Linder, M., Whalen, K. A. & Habibi, S. (2021) Product labels for the circular economy: 
are customers willing to pay for circular?. Sustainable Production and Consumption. 27, 61-71. 
Bressanelli, G., Perona, M. & Saccani, N. (2019) Benefits and acceptance rate of circular economy alternatives: 
Evidences from a user survey in the washing machine industry. In: XXIV Summer School “Francesco 
Turco” – Industrial Systems Engineering. 245-252.  
Bressanelli, G., Saccani, N. & Perona, M. (2022) Investigating Business Potential and Users’ Acceptance of 
Circular Economy: A Survey and an Evaluation Model. Sustainability. 14(2), 609. 
Camacho-Otero, J., Boks, C. & Pettersen, I. N. (2018) Consumption in the circular economy: A literature 
review. Sustainability. 10(8), 2758. 
Chen, Y., Wang, J. & Jia, X. (2020) Refurbished or remanufactured?—An experimental study on consumer 
choice behavior. Frontiers in psychology. 11, 781. 
Duan, Y. & Aloysius, J. A. (2019) Supply chain transparency and willingness-to-pay for refurbished products. 
The International Journal of Logistics Management. 30(3), 797-820.  
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2013) Towards the Circular Economy. Economic and business rationale for an 
accelerated 
transition. 
Available 
from: 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
338 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
https://www.werktrends.nl/app/uploads/2015/06/Rapport_McKinsey-
Towards_A_Circular_Economy.pdf 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2015) Towards the Circular Economy: Economic and business rationale for an 
accelerated 
transition. 
Available 
from: 
https://emf.thirdlight.com/link/ip2fh05h21it-
6nvypm/@/preview/1?o 
Esmaeilian, B., Saminathan, P. O., Cade, W. & Behdad, S. (2021) Marketing strategies for refurbished 
products: Survey-based insights for probabilistic selling and technology level. Resources, 
Conservation and Recycling. 167, 105401. 
Essoussi, L. H. & Linton, J. D. (2010) New or recycled products: how much are consumers willing to pay?. 
Journal of Consumer Marketing. 27(5), 458-468. 
European Union. (2017) G7 Meeting on Resource Efficiency Stakeholder Session. Available from: 
https://ec.europa.eu/environment/international_issues/pdf/8_9_february_2017/G7_meeting_on_
resource_efficiency_final_report.pdf 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M. & Hultink, E. J. (2017) The Circular Economy–A new sustainability 
paradigm?. Journal of cleaner production. 143, 757-768. 
Govindan, K., & Hasanagic, M. (2018). A systematic review on drivers, barriers, and practices towards circular 
economy: a supply chain perspective. International Journal of Production Research, 56(1-2), 278-
311. 
Gülserliler, E. G., Blackburn, J. D. & Van Wassenhove, L. N. (2021) Consumer acceptance of circular business 
models and potential effects on economic performance: The case of washing machines. Journal of 
Industrial Ecology. 1-13.  
Harms, R. & Linton, J. D. (2016) Willingness to pay for eco‐certified refurbished products: The effects of 
environmental attitudes and knowledge. Journal of industrial ecology. 20(4), 893-904. 
Holmström, S. & Böhlin, H. (2017) Towards a circular economy: A qualitative study on how to communicate 
refurbished smartphones in the Swedish market. [Independent thesis, Umeå University]. 
Hunka, A. D., Linder, M. & Habibi, S. (2021). Determinants of consumer demand for circular economy 
products. A case for reuse and remanufacturing for sustainable development. Business Strategy and 
the Environment. 30(1), 535-550. 
Koistila, K. (2020) Cultural barriers to circular economy adoption: consumer awareness and attitudes towards 
refurbished ICT devices. [Masters thesis, LUT University]. 
Lahane, S., Prajapati, H. & Kant, R. (2021) Emergence of circular economy research: a systematic literature 
review. Management of Environmental Quality: An International Journal. 32 (3), 575–595. 
Lieder, M. & Rashid, A. (2016) Towards circular economy implementation: a comprehensive review in context 
of manufacturing industry. Journal of cleaner production. 115, 36-51. 
Liu, H. T. & Tsaur, R. C. (2020) The theory of reasoned action applied to green smartphones: Moderating effect 
of government subsidies. Sustainability. 12(15), 5979. 
Mahmoodi, H. & Heydari, J. (2021) Consumers' preferences in purchasing recycled/refurbished products: an 
empirical investigation. International Journal of Services and Operations Management. 38(4), 594-
609. 
Mugge, R., de Jong, W., Person, O. & Hultink, E. J. (2018) ‘If It Ain’t Broke, Don’t Explain It’: The Influence of 
Visual and Verbal Information about Prior Use on Consumers’ Evaluations of Refurbished Electronics. 
The Design Journal. 21(4), 499-520. 
Mugge, R., Jockin, B. & Bocken, N. (2017) How to sell refurbished smartphones? An investigation of different 
customer groups and appropriate incentives. Journal of Cleaner Production. 147, 284-296. 
Mugge, R., Safari, I. & Balkenende, R. (2017) Is there a market for refurbished toothbrushes? An exploratory 
study on consumers' acceptance of refurbishment for different product categories. In: Bakker, C. & 
Mugge, R. (eds.) PLATE: Product Lifetimes And The Environment. IOS Press, pp. 293-297. 
Nasiri, M. S. & Shokouhyar, S. (2021) Actual consumers' response to purchase refurbished smartphones: 
Exploring perceived value from product reviews in online retailing. Journal of Retailing and Consumer 
Services. 62, 102652. 
Rallo, 
J. 
(2018) 
The 
Rise 
of 
Refurbished 
Products. 
Liquidity 
Services. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.liquidityservices.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/wp_rtcb0101_1502.pdf 
Ratering, K. (2020) Product optimization to increase consumer acceptance of refurbished domestic appliances. 
[Masters thesis, Delft University of Technology]. 
Sharifi, Z. & Shokouhyar, S. (2021) Promoting consumer's attitude toward refurbished mobile phones: A social 
media analytics approach. Resources, Conservation and Recycling. 167, 105398. 
Snel, S. (2021) Designing the used: Enhancing the consumer acceptance of refurbished luxury personal care 
products; a Philips Lumea Prestige case study. [Masters thesis, Delft University of Technology]. 
Stahel, W. R. (2016) The circular economy. Nature. 531(7595), 435-438. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
339 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Statista. (2022) Development of the demand for refurbished high-tech products in France between February 
2020 
and 
February 
2021, 
by 
product. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.statista.com/statistics/1234454/growth-demand-refurbished-high-tech-products-
france-product/#statisticContainer [Accessed 31st January 2022]  
Sumter, D., Bakker, C. & Balkenende, R. (2018) The role of product design in creating circular business models: 
A case study on the lease and refurbishment of baby strollers. Sustainability. 10(7), 2415. 
Van Weelden, E., Mugge, R. & Bakker, C. (2016) Paving the way towards circular consumption: exploring 
consumer acceptance of refurbished mobile phones in the Dutch market. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 113, 743-754. 
Wallner, T. S., Magnier, L. & Mugge, R. (2020) An exploration of the value of timeless design styles for the 
consumer acceptance of refurbished products. Sustainability. 12(3), 1213. 
Wallner, T. S., Magnier, L. & Mugge, R. (2021) Buying new or refurbished? The influence of the product’s 
durability and attractiveness, contamination risk and consumers ‘environmental concern on 
purchase intentions of refurbished and new products. In: 4th PLATE Virtual Conference Limerick, 
Ireland, 26-28 May 2021.  
Wallner, T. S., Magnier, L. & Mugge, R. (2022) Do consumers mind contamination by previous users? A choice-
based conjoint analysis to explore strategies that improve consumers' choice for refurbished 
products. Resources, Conservation and Recycling. 177, 105998. 
Appendix 
Authors and product categories 
 
Author 
Product category 
Author 
Product category 
Agostini et al., 2021 
smartphone 
Agost & Vergara, 
2020 
wardrobe 
Nasiri & 
Shokouhyar, 2021 
smartphone 
Harms & Linton, 
2016 
single-use camera, 
cellphone, toner 
cartridge, printer, car 
tire 
Sharifi & 
Shokouhyar, 2021 
mobile phone 
Liu & Tsaur, 2020 
smartphone 
Essoussi & Linton, 
2010 
auto part, cellphone, 
printer/fax + re-treated 
tire, refilled cartridge, 
recycled paper 
Mugge, Jockin & 
Bocken, 2017 
smartphone 
Mugge et al., 2018 
smartphone 
Akkucuk, 2011 
sanitary paper product, 
nonsanitary paper 
product, furniture, tire, 
autopart, cellphone, 
printer fax (not stated 
which products are 
refurbished and which 
recycled/retreated...but 
supposably the same as 
above) 
van Weelden, 
Mugge & Bakker, 
2016 
mobile phone 
Holmström & 
Böhlin, 2017 
smartphone 
Esmaeilian et al., 
2021 
Mobile phone 
Wallner, Magnier & 
Mugge, 2022 
wireless 
headphones 
Mahmoodi & 
Heydari, 2021 
technology products 
(laptops, mobile 
phones), personal 
products (electric 
Wallner, Magnier & 
Mugge, 2021 
headphones, 
blender 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
340 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Gülserliler, 
Blackburn & Van 
Wassenhove, 2021 
washing machine 
toothbrush, 
dinnerware), household 
products (microwave 
oven, toaster), luxury 
products (branded 
watches) 
Bressanelli, Perona 
& Saccani, 2019 
washing machine 
Ratering, 2020 
general + fridge, 
washing machine, 
toaster, kettle, blender, 
hand blender, kitchen 
robot, coffee machine, 
over, dryer, iron, 
vacuum cleaner 
Bressanelli, Saccani, 
Perona, 2022 
washing machine 
Duan & Aloysius, 
2019 
computer 
Koistila, 2020 
laptop, 
smartphone, 
tablet 
Borin, Lindsey-
Mullikin & 
Krishnan, 2013 
laser printer 
Mugge, Safari & 
Balkenende, 2017 
electric tootbrush, 
kettle, computer 
mouse, sunglasses, 
hanger, headphones, 
umbrella, vase, camera, 
cooking pot, wallet, 
iron, microwave, 
stereo, wrist watch, 
armchair, clock, laptop, 
smartphone, standing 
light, trashbin, washing 
machine, backpack, 
coffee maker, desk 
lamp, drill, office chair, 
suitcase, table, 
wardrobe 
Snel, 2021 
IPL hair removal 
Chen, Wang, & Jia, 
2020 
MP4, cartridge 
Wallner, Magnier & 
Mugge, 2020 
coffee maker, 
headphones, 
radio 
Boyer et al., 2021 
robot vacuum 
cleaner, mobile 
phone 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
341 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Paradoxical Tensions in Circular 
Startups 
 
Alexa Böckel1,*, Steffen Farny1 
1Centre for Sustainability Management, Leuphana University Lüneburg;  
*boeckel@leuphana.de 
Abstract  
Circular startups face paradoxical tensions in their attempt to change the linear economic system 
into a circular one. This study examines 13 circular startups in a German incubation program. An 
inductive qualitative analysis reveals three types of tensions – conventional, sustainability and 
circular 
– 
and 
how 
circular 
startups 
manage 
them. 
Circular startups experience paradoxical tensions in developing their business models and following 
the goal of transforming the economy into a circular one. In order to better understand the different 
tensions and how they are evoked, we apply a paradox theory lens to examine different types of 
paradoxical tensions in circular startups. For that, we followed a grounded theory approach and 
interviewed and observed 13 startups in a German incubation program over one year. This study 
finds three types of tensions that emerge through the circular startups’ self-identity and goal 
orientation: conventional, sustainability and circular tensions. Conventional tensions can emerge in 
every startup, while sustainability and circular tensions are specific for startups with a focus on 
sustainability or the circular economy. Sustainability tensions emanate through the attempt of 
contributing to economic, environmental and social goals. Circular tensions are due to the 
specificity of circular startups trying to transform supply chains into value networks through 
systemic thinking. Apart from these types of tensions originating from within the circular startups, 
expectations and interests from stakeholders are posed upon the circular startups. Two exemplary 
stakeholders - jury members and the financing organization - are selected to showcase diverging 
expectations. Instead of aiming for alignment between the diverging interests and contradictory 
aspirations, we argue that experiencing paradoxical tensions as an early-stage startup prepares 
circular startups to manage tensions later on. 
Keywords 
Circular startups, paradox theory, paradoxical tension, incubation program 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
342 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Introduction 
Since recently, circular startups are a fast-growing alternative approach to directly address societal 
grand challenges. As a specific case of a hybrid business (Hahn et al., 2014), circular startups 
integrate circular strategies in their business model in order to limit resource use and expand 
product-life cycles (Henry et al., 2020). Further, they apply systems thinking to understand supply 
chains and transform them into value networks (Bocken et al., 2017; Geissdoerfer et al., 2017). As 
such, circular startups directly target the societal grand challenges of climate change mitigation 
(Howard-Grenville et al., 2014) and the management of non-renewable and renewable resources 
(George et al., 2018). However, due to the complex and contentious aim for systemic change 
comprising environmental targets and social inclusivity (Jaeger-Erben et al., 2021), circular startups 
inevitably experience paradoxical tensions in their daily operations as highlighted by De Angelis 
(2021) and Morales (2020). These tensions for example encompass the need of rearranging 
organizational structures towards more vertical ones (De Angelis, 2021) and creating new processes 
and knowledge for developing radical innovation (Ritzén & Sandström, 2017). 
To better understand paradoxical tensions, paradox theory offers effective responses to 
paradoxical experiences that simultaneously engage seemingly opposing sides (Putnam et al., 2016; 
Schad et al., 2016; Soderstrom & Heinze, 2021; Schneider et al., 2021). Paradox theory puts great 
attention on the integrative and generative potential of competing demands (Smith & Lewis, 2011) 
which is useful in contexts in which startups aim at providing social, environmental and economic 
value simultaneously (Hahn et al., 2018). Further, paradox theory acknowledges the complexity 
that circular startups experience in pursuing higher levels of circularity (Henry et al., 2020) through 
more disruptive and radical innovations in product, process and business model innovation 
(Blomsma et al., 2019). 
Hence, employing a paradoxical lens on circular startups enables us to take a more generative 
stance while remaining cognizant of the complex challenges inherent in circular approaches (cf. van 
Bommel, 2018; Smith & Lewis, 2011). Thus, we ask: What types of paradoxical tensions emerge in 
circular startups? and How do circular startups balance and imbalance tensions in pursuing system 
change? 
To examine these questions, we conducted an in-depth empirical study following 13 circular 
startups participating in an impact incubation program in Germany. We collected qualitative data 
through 20 semi-structured interviews with the circular startups, six interviews with the program 
managers of the incubation program, several hours of participatory observation in meetings and 
workshops and documents such as filled business model canvases and pitch decks. During the 
observation, field notes were taken by the researchers that supplement the interview transcripts. 
Adhering to principles of grounded theory (Strauss & Corbin, 1998), all data was analyzed iteratively 
going back and forth between theory, previous research and initial findings. In this short paper, we 
present preliminary findings with a particular emphasis on the first research question. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
343 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Theoretical Background 
Circular Startups 
By reviewing the literature on the circular economy, Brown et al. (2019) find a shared understanding 
concerning the goals and principles dominating the circular economy literature that are “(1) 
replacing linear systems with intentionally designed regenerative and restorative circular systems, 
(2) decoupling economic growth from non-renewable material throughput and environmental 
degradation, (3) increasing system resilience and (4) maximizing value creation, capture and 
recovery across economic, social and ecological values” (Brown et al., 2019 after Masi et al., 2017). 
These goals and principles require rethinking the role of business and its activities including design 
and innovation processes (Geissdoerfer et al., 2017). Hence, new forms of cooperation leading to 
new stakeholder relationships and new forms of organizing supply chains and value networks are 
an inherent part of the circular economy (Tapaninaho & Heikkinen, 2022). Similar to sustainable 
startups, circular startups are confronted with several expectations as they are perceived “as new 
market entrants [that] can adopt CBMs from the start, take a holistic perspective at their business 
model and monetize design-to-last and maintenance efforts” (Henry et al., 2020, p. 3). Developing 
a successful circular business model, contributing to systemic change, building new value networks 
and ecosystems at the same time as applying systems thinking and innovating radically in 
experiments seems to be a rather challenging undertaking, especially when diverging stakeholder 
interests exist (De Angelis, 2021). Consequently, paradox theory supports a closer examination of 
existing tensions in circular startups as well as how they respond to them. 
Paradox Theory 
Paradoxical tensions in organizations can occur when “contradictory yet interrelated elements (...) 
exist simultaneously and persist over time” (Smith & Lewis, 2011, p. 382). In the case of startups 
aiming for a sustainable circular economy, these are often linked to the existence of several - 
sometimes conflicting - strategic goals, such as satisfying sustainability-oriented customers whilst 
fulfilling other shareholders’ demands such as generating profits or providing products and services 
in the most sustainable design while maintaining a low price (van Bommel, 2018).  
Smith and Lewis (2011) categorize organizational paradoxical tensions into four types: learning, 
performing, organizing and belonging. Learning relates to knowledge creation and use as well as 
the creation of more or less radical innovation related to a temporal perspective, navigating 
between incremental changes on the foundation of the old and destroying the preexisting through 
radical transformations. Performing tensions occur through divergent understandings of 
organizational success posed from different stakeholders such as sustainability impact and 
profitability. Organizing concerns the design of organizational structures and logics such as the 
culture practicing competition or cooperation or leadership types fostering flexibility or control. 
Belonging reflects questions of identity of individuals and the organization as a collective such as 
perceiving yourself as a changemaker or rather an entrepreneur.  
The theoretical approach of paradoxes is used in research since several years to explain challenges 
in sustainable circular businesses as it enables scholars to extract more complex insights (cf. Hahn 
et al., 2014; Hahn, 2018; van Bommel, 2018; Van der Byl & Slawinski, 2015). Despite this general 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
344 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
advantage, previous research on paradoxical tensions in circular startups remains fairly scarce. 
Solely incumbent businesses have been analyzed with a paradoxical lens such as De Angelis (2021), 
who provides first conceptual ideas how different types of paradoxical tensions can occur in circular 
businesses developing and changing towards circular business models. Daddi et al. (2019) apply a 
multiple case study approach and find both defensive and proactive ways of circular businesses 
coping with tensions such as implementing new technologies, investing or certification. Morales 
(2020) examines nine cases of circular businesses of different size and age focusing on the tensions 
related to eco design and the use of secondary raw material.  
Methodology 
To establish an initial understanding of paradoxical tensions in circular startups, we apply a 
grounded theory design for collecting and analyzing qualitative data (Strauss & Corbin, 1998). 
Grounded theory is a common approach in analyzing paradoxical tensions and how organizations 
manage them (Fairhurst & Putnam, 2019) as well as in entrepreneurship research (Mäkelä & 
Turcan, 2007). Thus, our study approaches the objects of analysis in an open manner while 
reflecting on the categories of tensions by Smith and Lewis (2011), which is particularly suitable 
here due to the nascent stage of research on circular startups (Henry et al., 2020; De Angelis, 2021; 
Morales, 2020)  
Sampling Strategy and Data Collection 
For the purpose of this study, we examined two cohorts of circular startups participating in an 
incubation program. Each cohort participated for six months in the incubation program which has 
a focus on collaboration, circular economy and impact. Due to the COVID-19 situation, the program 
mostly took place digitally with single events on site. Startups were not allowed to have registered 
their business beforehand and are supposed to be at an early stage. The team members of the 
selected startups received a stipend over six months and were encouraged to participate in 
workshops, coaching, lectures and discussions concerning business model development, circular 
strategies and legal requirements for founding a business.  
The researcher was introduced to the startups at the beginning of the program and the interviews 
and participatory observation were communicated as mandatory for the participants. In 20 semi-
structured interviews ranging from 45-80 minutes with the 13 startup teams, six interviews with 
the program team and 25 hours of participatory observation, we gained in-depth insights in the 
startups’ experiences. The interviews were recorded and transcribed verbatim while notes were 
taken during the observations in workshops, lectures, and feedback meetings. In addition to the 
interviews and rich observations, we collected documents such as pitch-decks and filled business 
model canvasses to enable data triangulation (Yin, 1994). All data was collected during 2021, 
starting with the selection process of the members including the decisive jury meeting up to the 
final pitches of the startups at the end of the program.  
Data Analysis 
Typically for grounded theory, initial steps of the analysis began while data collection still took place 
(Mäkelä & Turcan, 2007). At first, the transcripts and notes were analyzed through an iterative and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
345 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
inductive manner while reflecting upon the types of paradoxical tensions in conventional 
businesses suggested by Smith & Lewis (2011) and incumbent circular businesses as researched by 
De Angelis (2021), Morales (2020) and Daddi et al. (2019). Starting with open coding of all data 
types, first categories are derived from the interviews and notes which was followed by axial and 
selective coding (Strauss & Corbin, 1998). 
Preliminary Results 
The results are divided into two aspects, namely the types of tensions stemming from their self-
identity and goal orientation and the tensions evoked by stakeholder expectations. Due to the early 
stage of the analysis, we can share only preliminary results at this stage.  
First, it appears that the startups faced general tensions that emerged most likely through their 
nascent stage in developing a functioning organization that are not specific for circular startups 
which we call ‘conventional tensions’. Second, other tensions emerged due to the orientation 
towards economic, environmental and social goals that are typical for startups in the realm of 
sustainability that can be termed ‘sustainability tensions’. Third, ‘circular tensions’ are due to the 
specificity of circular startups trying to transform supply chains into value networks through 
systemic thinking.  
Types of Tensions 
Conventional Tensions 
These tensions can occur in every startup independently from their overarching goal. One example 
of a conventional tension that was communicated by more than one startup was the amount of 
working hours every team member spends on the development of their business model. The team 
members both complained about their working load not being equal to each other as well as not 
living up to societal expectations on startup working hours.  
“We were taking up speed and I have the feeling that while I would be fine working on the weekends or 
working longer and being more productive during the time we work as well as working longer, I was anxious 
that the other two weren’t as eager about it (...).” 
In this case, the overarching goal of wellbeing and mental health of the team in contrast to the 
pressure of moving forward by working overtime were conflicting the team’s cohesion. Both, the 
wellbeing and mental health as well as progressing in the development of their circular startup was 
perceived as being crucial for the overarching success, but still contradictory.  
Another aspect was either the focus on strategic topics that are relevant in the long run or the 
development of the business model. The circular startups realized that it was not possible for them 
to concentrate on both aspects, as time and energy was a scarce resource in the incubation program 
and preferred the latter:  
“For the startups, it was the most important to work on the startup itself, meaning the product and with the 
classes and coaching, we rather provided strategic and background knowledge (...)”.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
346 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The preference of the circular startups clashed with the design and content of the incubation 
program as strategic aspects were an inherent part of the program. 
Circular Tensions 
Startups said that it is challenging to live up to their own expectations and external expectations of 
contributing to a transformation to a circular economy through their business models. Especially 
the core strategies leading towards a circular economy (e.g., reorganization of the linear economy 
and society towards circular ones, creating value networks, thinking in systems), contribute to 
circular tensions. In stating “the vision is not really about [our] product but it's more about the 
whole infrastructure”, one founder realizes that their primary goal is more extensive than only 
providing a product. Instead, the startup wants to use their product as a tool to create impact on a 
more systemic level. Nevertheless, their business model is built upon the product and not the value 
created through system change which evokes a continuous reflection of what to prioritize. Without 
the product and their entrepreneurial activity, the circular startups lack the possibility to initiate 
system change while the focus on the product prevents the startups from fully being engaged in 
system change. The startups feel disjointed between their identity of being change agents or even 
activists and the necessity of fulfilling the role of an entrepreneur which leads to belonging tensions. 
Another example is the radicality of the startups’ innovation and business models which the 
entrepreneurs know are necessary but also more difficult to realize: “(..) we wanted to tackle 
something which is not easy. Because that is maybe a reason why not many people actually try to 
do something in the industry.” In their attempt to provide a product with higher circularity, they 
exceed the common standards in the industry and are confronted with the necessity of new 
knowledge for radical innovation. As this knowledge is not available yet and the circular startups 
have to spend resources on experimentation, building new partnerships and researching 
alternatives, a learning tension between continuing with the old and entering the market fast and 
starting the new and being delayed in entering the market. This learning tension seems prevalent 
in circular startups that perceive themselves as change agents for system change. Apart from the 
self-expectations of the circular startups concerning their products’ level of circularity, expectations 
from other stakeholders of the incubation program were posed upon the circular startups. 
Complexity through Diverging Stakeholder Expectations 
The circular startups faced several diverging interests and expectations brought forward by 
different stakeholders that were part of the incubation program leading to performing tensions. 
These diverging expectations constituted a complex context in which the circular startups operated. 
The types of stakeholders comprised external experts functioning as jury members, the program 
managers, the program itself, the organizations financing the program, external experts providing 
content and coaching, the other participating startups and the individual members of the startups. 
In order to give a first insight into diverging expectations, the jury members and the financing 
organization are showcased in the following. 
Jury Members 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
347 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The jury members and the program managers were the first contact that the circular startups had 
at the beginning of the incubation program. The incubation program started with a pitching session 
in which the jury members and program managers interrogated the circular startups concerning 
the business models. Afterwards, the jury deliberated which startups were invited to participate in 
the incubation program. As the jury members came from different positions, they either focused 
on the degree of circularity, the potential of their product or service to contribute to a system 
change, the suitability of the team to the program or on the startups’ likelihood to succeed. Two 
members of the jury preferred startups that were net-positive in their impact and have a cradle-to-
cradle approach in their material. For others, the primary goal of the program was to ensure that 
the startups are able to finance themselves after the incubation program which requires the 
startups focusing on financing instead of improving their product in terms of circularity or fulfilling 
overarching aims. Already the first interaction with the jury and the program managers made the 
disparity of priorities between the jury members visible for the circular startups. 
Financing Organization 
The financing organization was a public entity that sponsored the program with the motivation of 
encouraging circular startups to locate at the municipality. The primary goal of the financing 
organization was that the circular startups after having finished the incubation program enter the 
market and are legally funded: “the [financing organization] wants to tick it off and they only tick it 
off if there is a startup [in the market].” This primary goal was combined with legal requirements 
that had to be fulfilled by the circular startups such as participating regularly in the incubation 
program and signing off attendance lists. These legal requirements were perceived as time 
consuming by the startups and as a nuisance. 
Discussion and Outlook 
To the best knowledge of the authors, this is one of the first studies that investigates tensions in 
circular startups and one of the few studies that concentrates on circular startups in general apart 
from e.g., Henry et al. (2020). The present study was designed to examine paradoxical tensions in 
circular startups that are embedded in an incubation program. In interviewing and observing 13 
circular startups and the stakeholders of the incubation program, the first results show that circular 
startups experience tensions of different kinds such as conventional, sustainability and circular 
tensions. The second major finding is that the interests of the program’s stakeholders are diverging 
and contradictory which can lead to performing paradoxes in the circular startups. This finding that 
different stakeholders being involved in incubation programs for the circular economy have 
diverging interests is similar to previous findings from studies in the global south (Hull et al., 2021). 
Additionally, in comparison to former studies on circular incubation programs, this study shows 
that not only the government, non-profit actors such as non-governmental organizations, trade 
associations, entrepreneurs, the banking sector, and academia are a contributing part for 
incubators in the circular economy (Hull et al., 2021) but also experts from the industry, program 
managers and the financing organizations influence the participating circular startups.  
When considering the performing tensions with a bit of distance, the question of the tensions’ 
implications come to mind. From a perspective of alignment, one would argue that the diverging 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
348 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
expectations from the stakeholders have to be adjusted so that the circular startups are able to 
fulfill all of them. From a perspective of paradoxical complexity, we would rather reason that the 
complexity already appearing in the incubation program enables the circular startups to practice 
their management of tensions early on. Diverging stakeholder expectations are especially 
observable for circular businesses in the market (Jakhar et al., 2019) and are not a distinct 
phenomenon of circular startups in the foundation phase. As this study is still in an early phase, the 
results can only be recognized as preliminary that will be deepened in the future. In concrete terms, 
this means that the categories of conventional, sustainability and circular tensions will be more 
distinct and clearer as well as the stakeholder expectations. Further, how the startups manage the 
tensions is not analyzed in the data set yet.  
References  
Battilana, J., & Dorado, S. (2010). Building sustainable hybrid organizations: The case of commercial 
microfinance organizations. Academy of Management Journal. 53 (6), 1419-1440. 
Blomsma, F., Pieroni, M., Kravchenko, M., Pigosso, D. C., Hildenbrand, J., Kristinsdottir, A. R., ... & McAloone, 
T. C. (2019). Developing a circular strategies framework for manufacturing companies to support 
circular economy-oriented innovation. Journal of Cleaner Production. 241, 118271. 
Bocken, N. M., Ritala, P., & Huotari, P. (2017). The circular economy: exploring the introduction of the concept 
among S&P 500 firms. Journal of Industrial Ecology. 21 (3), 487-490. 
Brown, P., Bocken, N., & Balkenende, R. (2019). Why do companies pursue collaborative circular oriented 
innovation?. Sustainability. 11 (3), 635. 
Daddi, T., Ceglia, D., Bianchi, G., & de Barcellos, M. D. (2019). Paradoxical tensions and corporate 
sustainability: A focus on circular economy business cases. Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Environmental Management. 26 (4), 770-780. 
De Angelis, R. (2021). Circular economy and paradox theory: A business model perspective. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 285, 124823. 
Fairhurst, G. T., & Putnam, L. L. (2019). An integrative methodology for organizational oppositions: Aligning 
grounded theory and discourse analysis. Organizational Research Methods. 22 (4), 917-940. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M., & Hultink, E. J. (2017). The Circular Economy–A new 
sustainability paradigm?. Journal of Cleaner Production, 143, 757-768. 
George, G., Schillebeeckx, S. J., & Liak, T. L. (2018). The management of natural resources: An overview and 
research agenda. In: George, G. & Schillebeeckx, S.J. (eds.) Managing Natural Resources. 
Cheltenham, UK, Edward Elgar, pp. 1-32. 
Glaser, B., & Strauss, A. (1967) The discovery of grounded theory: Strategies for qualitative research. London, 
UK, Wiedenfeld and Nicholson. 
Hahn, T., Figge, F., Pinkse, J., & Preuss, L. (2018). A paradox perspective on corporate sustainability: 
Descriptive, instrumental, and normative aspects. Journal of Business Ethics. 148 (2), 235-248. 
Hahn, T., Preuss, L., Pinkse, J., & Figge, F. (2014). Cognitive frames in corporate sustainability: Managerial 
sensemaking with paradoxical and business case frames. Academy of Management Review. 39 (4), 
463-487. 
Henry, M., Bauwens, T., Hekkert, M., & Kirchherr, J. (2020). A typology of circular start-ups: An Analysis of 
128 circular business models. Journal of Cleaner Production. 245, 118528. 
Howard-Grenville, J., Buckle, S. J., Hoskins, B. J., & George, G. (2014). Climate change and management. 
Academy of Management Journal. 57 (3), 615-623. 
Hull, C. E., Millette, S., & Williams, E. (2021). Challenges and opportunities in building circular-economy 
incubators: Stakeholder perspectives in Trinidad and Tobago. Journal of Cleaner Production. 296, 
126412. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
349 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Jaeger-Erben, M., Jensen, C., Hofmann, F., & Zwiers, J. (2021). There is no sustainable circular economy 
without a circular society. Resources, Conservation and Recycling. 168, 105476. 
Jakhar, S. K., Mangla, S. K., Luthra, S., & Kusi-Sarpong, S. (2019). When stakeholder pressure drives the circular 
economy: Measuring the mediating role of innovation capabilities. Management Decision. 57 (4), 
904-920. 
Mäkelä, M. M., & Turcan, R. V. (2007). Building grounded theory in entrepreneurship research. In: Neergaard, 
H. & Ulhoi, J.P. (eds.) Handbook of qualitative research methods in entrepreneurship. Cheltenham, 
UK, Edward Elgar, pp. 122-143. 
Masi, D., Day, S., & Godsell, J. (2017). Supply chain configurations in the circular economy: A systematic 
literature review. Sustainability. 9 (9), 1602. 
Morales, A. H. (2020). Exploring Paradoxical Tensions in Circular Business Models—Cases from North Europe. 
Sustainability. 12 (18), 7577. 
Putnam, L. L., Fairhurst, G. T., & Banghart, S. (2016). Contradictions, dialectics, and paradoxes in 
organizations: A constitutive approach. Academy of Management Annals. 10 (1), 65-171. 
Ritzén, S., & Sandström, G. Ö. (2017). Barriers to the Circular Economy–integration of perspectives and 
domains. Procedia Cirp. 64, 7-12. 
Schad, J., Lewis, M. W., Raisch, S., & Smith, W. K. (2016). Paradox research in management science: Looking 
back to move forward. Academy of Management Annals. 10 (1), 5-64. 
Schneider, A., Bullinger, B., & Brandl, J. (2021). Resourcing under tensions: How frontline employees create 
resources to balance paradoxical tensions. Organization Studies. 42(8), 1291-1317. 
Smith, W. K., & Lewis, M. W. (2011). Toward a theory of paradox: A dynamic equilibrium model of organizing. 
Academy of Management Review. 36 (2), 381-403. 
Soderstrom, S. B., & Heinze, K. L. (2021). From paradoxical thinking to practicing sustainable business: The 
role of a business collective organization in supporting entrepreneurs. Organization & Environment. 
34 (1), 74-98. 
Strauss, A., & Corbin, J. M. (1998). Basics of qualitative research: Techniques and procedures for developing 
grounded theory (2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA, Sage. 
Tapaninaho, R., & Heikkinen, A. (2022). Value creation in circular economy business for sustainability: A 
stakeholder relationship perspective. Business Strategy and the Environment. Available from: 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/bse.3002 [Accessed 12th February 12, 2022]. 
van Bommel, K. (2018). Managing tensions in sustainable business models: Exploring instrumental and 
integrative strategies. Journal of Cleaner Production. 196, 829-841. 
van der Byl, C. A., & Slawinski, N. (2015). Embracing tensions in corporate sustainability: A review of research 
from win-wins and trade-offs to paradoxes and beyond. Organization & Environment. 28 (1), 54-79. 
Yin, R.K. (1994) Case Study Research: Design and methods. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
350 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Circular business models in the wind 
industry 
 
Potential sustainability benefits and industrial 
challenges 
Joan Manuel F. Mendoza1,2,*, Alejandro Gallego-Schmid3, Anne 
P.M. Velenturf4, Paul D. Jensen5, Dorleta Ibarra1  
1Mondragon Unibertsitatea, Faculty of Engineering, Mechanics and 
Industrial Production; 2IKERBASQUE, Basque Foundation for Science; 
3Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research, School of Engineering, 
The University of Manchester; 4School of Civil Engineering, University 
of Leeds; 5Sustainability Research Institute, University of Leeds 
*jmfernandez@mondragon.edu   
Abstract 
The deployment of wind energy technologies is instrumental to support a sustainable energy 
transition. However, the manufacturing, operation and end-of-life management of wind turbines 
(WTs) entail the consumption of a significant amount of energy and material resources contributing 
to environmental impacts. Thus, much of the ongoing sustainability research on WTs have been 
concentrated on material innovation (e.g. substitution of rare earth elements in the generators) 
and technology innovation (e.g. new recycling technologies for blade composites) to increase 
resource security and efficiency. Nevertheless, there is a lack of research analysing the role circular 
business models (CBMs) can have in driving implementation of circular economy (CE) strategies for 
narrowing, slowing and closing resource loops in the wind industry. Accordingly, this paper 
summarises the key potential sustainability benefits related to 14 CBMs with application to the 
wind industry, including the main industrial challenges that should be overcome to facilitate the 
upscaling of sustainable CBMs and value chains. A description of how CBMs can be implemented to 
support the resource-efficient management of wind energy projects at different stages of 
development and operation is also provided with the aim of guiding CE-oriented decision-making 
processes.  
Keywords  
Business models, circular economy, circular value chain, renewable energy, wind turbines. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
351 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Introduction 
Wind is a key renewable energy source (RES) to support a sustainable energy transition, 
accompanied with demand-side resource efficiency improvements driven by circular economy (CE) 
strategies (UNEP 2019). 
However, wind energy is not exempt from resource and environmental impacts. For instance, a 
review of 79 life cycle assessment studies on RES performed by Amponsah et al. (2014), concludes 
that wind energy greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions can range between a minimum of 1.7 g CO2 
eq./kWh to up to 123.7 g CO2 eq./kWh (+7,100%), where the materials used to manufacture the 
wind turbines (WTs) account for 50% to 80% of the environmental impacts (Amponsah et al. 2014, 
Jensen 2019). 
A conventional WT can have around 25,000 components, weighing more than 3,400 tonnes; 680 
tonnes corresponding to the weight of a single (4.2 MW) WT (Razdan and Garrett 2019). Over 90% 
of the materials used in a single WT, comprising a tower, a nacelle, and a rotor with three blades, 
corresponds to metals (e.g. steels, copper, aluminium). However, rare earth elements (REEs) (e.g. 
neodymium (Nd) and dysprosium (Dy)) and composites (glass and carbon fibre reinforced polymers) 
are required to manufacture the permanent magnets of direct drive synchronous generators and 
the WT blades, respectively.  
REEs are critical materials with a very low recovery rate through current conventional recycling 
systems (Wind Europe 2020). Likewise, recycling the blades is inefficient and costly due to the 
technical complexity in separating the various materials in the composite construction (Jensen and 
Skelton 2018). Both aspects represent relevant challenges for the wind industry. Whereas REE 
supply might not be able to meet the ambitious wind power deployment scenarios due to 
geopolitical and environmental constraints (Li et al. 2020), large amounts of blade waste will be 
generated in the short to medium term due to wind farms decommissioning and repowering 
projects (Liu and Barlow 2017).  
Accordingly, much of the material and technology environmental innovation taking place globally 
concentrates on finding solutions to reduce the dependence on REEs and facilitate effective 
composite recycling to increase the overall resource efficiency of wind energy technologies (e.g. 
European Commission 2022). However, little attention has been placed so far on the role and 
relevance of circular business models (CBMs) to facilitate the configuration of circular value chains 
toward narrowing, slowing and closing resource loops (Bocken et al. 2016, Velenturf 2021) from a 
more integrated and holistic approach than focusing only on material and technology innovation. 
CBMs are oriented to narrowing, slowing, closing and regenerating resource loops to mitigate 
negative impacts (Konietko et al. 2020, EEA 2021), while generating higher socio-economic benefits 
compared to linear business models based on take-make-use-dispose (Rosa et al. 2019). However, 
despite the benefits of developing CBMs in the wind industry, research with a focus on CBMs is 
scarce and limited in scope, as the studies available do not provide an overview of the type of CBMs 
that can be implemented by the wind industry to deploy more sustainable wind energy systems 
(e.g. Velenturf et al. 2021, Lobregt et Al. 2021, Nichifor 2015). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
352 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
CE strategy 
CBM typologies 
Business goal 
Key requirements 
Sustainability potential 
Economic sustainability 
Environmental sustainability 
Social sustainability 
Narrowing 
resource 
flows 
Demand reduction 
services 
Mitigating resource consumption by 
delivering service-based solutions 
Digitalisation 
Data analytics 
Internet of things (IoT) 
Increased profit from reliable 
asset outputs 
Greater and consistent renewable 
energy 
Lower resource use due to fewer 
parts replacement 
Increase in skilled component 
performance modelling careers 
Cleaner production 
Reducing resource consumption, 
wastes and impacts through best 
available technologies 
Advanced materials and 
manufacturing equipment  
Substantial reduction in 
manufacturing costs 
Substantial reduction in resource 
consumption for WT 
manufacturing 
Training and skilling new 
workers in highly specialised 
and technical jobs 
Collaborative 
consumption 
Community-
owned wind park 
Decentralisation, democratisation and 
decarbonisation of electricity 
generation through community 
engagement 
Renewable energy 
certificates 
Energy cooperatives 
Local investment 
Transparency in the shared 
economic benefits 
 
Climate change mitigation through 
increased use of renewable 
energy 
 
Investment returns in the local 
economy through the 
development of energy projects 
Recruitment of local staff 
Aggregator 
platform 
Balancing energy production and 
consumption through flexibility 
services that ensure grid stability, 
while increasing consumers’ 
awareness in energy sufficiency. 
Software platforms 
Virtual energy storage 
systems 
Prosumers 
More efficient use of 
technologies and physical 
storage systems 
New job opportunities with 
consumers becoming active 
subjects in the energy market 
Wind farm hybridisation 
PV-WT-Battery 
Combination of photovoltaic panels, 
wind turbines and batteries in a single 
location to improve resource efficiency 
WTs, PV panels, storage 
batteries 
Supporting infrastructure 
System performance optimisation 
through efficient use of surplus 
energy to minimise power 
curtailment 
Reduced use of fossil-based fuels, 
GHG emissions and reduced 
waste generation 
 
New employment opportunities 
as the hybridisation of wind 
farms requires more labour and 
new skills 
Power-to-X 
Power-to-
Gas (PtG) 
Convert renewable energy into 
gaseous energy carriers (e.g. 
hydrogen, methane) to substitute 
fossil-based gas fuels. 
Electrolysers & storage 
tanks 
Air capture systems & 
combined cycle gas 
turbines 
Same plus act as renewable 
energy storage system for use to 
decarbonise energy-intensive 
industrial processes. 
Power-to-
Liquid 
(PtL) 
Convert renewable energy into liquid 
energy carriers (e.g. methanol, 
Fischer-Tropsch fuels) to substitute 
fossil-based liquid fuels.    
Methanation plant  
Reverse water-gas shift 
plant & heat exchangers 
Storage tanks & 
distribution networks 
Slowing 
resource 
loops 
Retrofitting (upgrading) 
Improving assets´ efficiency, capacity 
and performance by fitting 
components upgrading solutions 
Software and data 
analytics 
Technology adds on 
Reduction in the LCOE  
Increase revenue generation 
through adds-on  
Increase annual energy production 
Reduction in noise levels  
Need for skilled engineers  
Positive corporate reputation (by 
rising environ. awareness) 
Reuse 
Second-hand use (same application) 
of WT components that are in a good 
condition.  
Software (trading 
platforms) 
Decommissioning tools & 
storage areas 
Redistribution logistics 
Cost savings in purchasing and 
operating WTs 
Development of local markets for 
reused products 
Notable reduction in waste 
generation and GHG emissions 
 
Employment opportunities in 
second-hand markets 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
353 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 1.  Overview of circular business models with application to the wind industry. Acronyms: GHG – greenhouse gases, LCOE – levelised cost of electricity, OEM – original equipment manufacturer, PtG – 
power to gas, PtL – power to liquid, PV – photovoltaic panels, REE – rare earth elements, WT – wind turbine. 
CE strategy 
CBM typologies 
Business goal 
Key requirements 
Sustainability potential 
Economic sustainability 
Environmental sustainability 
Social sustainability 
Refurbishment 
Partially restoring the WT operational 
capacity by repairing and replacing 
worn or damaged components 
Workshops & tools 
Testing equipment 
High quality spares 
Market diversification 
Reduced capital costs, payback 
times and LCOE 
Substantial reduction in material 
use and GHG emissions per asset 
As refurbishment activities are 
labour intensive, they can open 
new markets and job 
opportunities   
Serve educational purposes  
Meeting social needs in less 
developed RES markets  
Remanufacturing 
Fully restoring the WT functionality, 
resulting in final WTs comparable, or 
even better, to brand-new units 
Reverse logistics 
Remanufacturing plants 
and equipment 
Spare parts 
Project cost improvement for 
secondary users due to reduced 
capital investment  
Preserve the material value 
Save energy and avoid GHG 
emissions  
Improve energy output. 
Repurposing 
Reusing a product or its parts (after 
reprocessing) for different applications 
than the original 
Specialised facilities  
Software tools  
Warehouses  
Redistribution logistics 
Blade-based products can be 
very profitable  
Reduce the economic cost of 
some civil engineering projects 
Improvement in brand image and 
reputation. 
Blade-based solutions have a 
reduced environmental footprint 
compared to standard solutions. 
Product lifetime can be extended 
greatly 
Local jobs in communities close 
to wind farms. 
Education and training 
programmes for students and 
industry professionals through 
design studios and labs  
Closing 
resource 
loops 
Open loop recycling 
Extending resource value through 
material recovery for use in the 
development of new components and 
products (downcycling) 
Recycling facilities, 
technologies and tools 
Material storage units 
  
Lower disposal rates 
New business opportunities 
More resilient supply chains by 
reduced demand on imports 
Reduced pressure on virgin 
materials and imports. 
Improved environ. performance 
against landfilling 
Potential to create new jobs in 
material recovery activities. 
Closed loop recycling 
Implementation of reverse logistics 
and reprocessing systems for material 
recovery and use in the manufacture 
of WT components (upcycling). 
Dismantling, collection & 
recycling equipment and 
facilities 
Reverse logistics 
Optimised recovery routes for 
some materials can generate 
substantial economic benefits 
(e.g. REEs) 
Significant GHG reductions by 
recovering some materials (e.g. 
REEs)  
Optimised reverse logistic routes 
can help to reduce the 
transportation GHG emissions  
New highly specialised jobs 
Local community development 
through the installation of 
collection and recovery facilities 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
354 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
As far as the authors were aware at the time of writing this contribution, there is only one scientific 
paper available in the literature (Mendoza et al. 2022) that has addressed a comprehensive 
categorisation and characterisation of CBMs with application to the wind industry. Building upon 
Mendoza et al. (2022), this short paper concisely summarises and discusses the potential 
sustainability benefits and industrial trade-offs related to 14 CBMs applicable to the wind industry, 
including the provision of guidelines for future research.  
Circular business models in the wind industry 
Building upon the approaches proposed by Blomsma et al. (2019) and Pieroni et al. (2020) for the 
identification, categorisation and characterisation of CE strategies and CBMs, Mendoza et al. (2022) 
performed a systematic literature review of 125 journal papers and industrial reports leading to the 
definition of 14 CBMs with application to the wind industry. A CBM canvas was used to define the 
business offering, the value creation, delivery and capture mechanisms, the potential sustainability 
benefits and the industrial challenges and opportunities, by relying on the findings from the 
literature review. However, due to space limitations, only a summary of the main goal, key resource 
requirements and potential sustainability benefits of the 14 CBMs with application to the wind 
industry are presented in Table 1.  
As shown in Table 1, digitalisation, reverse logistics, and specialised materials, equipment and 
facilities, are the most relevant requirements to implement CBMs in the wind industry, which must 
be managed by specialised technicians and engineers. Likewise, strategic partnerships between 
original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), materials and equipment suppliers, wind farm owners 
and operators, and waste managers is crucial to design, implement and manage CBMs over time, 
as each actor depends on the other and CBMs cannot be driven by a single company nor operate in 
silos. Finally, although wind park owners and operators are the main customer segments, local 
businesses and communities (from developed and developing countries), looking for the 
implementation of low-cost renewable energy production systems, also represent relevant 
customer segments for the deployment of resource-efficient and environmentally sustainable 
solutions. High energy and carbon intensive industries demanding clean energy (gas or liquid) 
carriers can also benefit from the hybridisation of wind farms (Table 1).  
However, CBMs should be properly planned, designed and deployed in the value chain to ensure 
sustainability benefits (or net positive impacts) are achieved. This requires action to be taken in the 
following areas (Mendoza et al. 2022): 
Development of servitisation and digitalisation capabilities 
Build robust business cases, including value chain considerations within and beyond the wind 
industry, for an accurate balance of costs and benefits 
Address technical constraints for the implementation of CE solutions 
Develop suitable markets for secondary products and materials 
Reduce the complexity of forward and reverse logistics  
Rationalise supply and demand mismatches 
Diversify industrial know-how and capabilities 
Encourage policy development and incentives 
Define and implement circular design and technology management criteria 
Use robust sustainability assessment frameworks, tools and indicators 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
355 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Main conclusions 
As discussed by Mendoza et al. (2022), the dematerialization and servitization of wind farms should 
be considered from the early project planning stage to minimise overall resource consumption and 
negative impacts related to WTs and infrastructure manufacturing, installation and maintenance 
over time. As an absolute dematerialisation of wind farms is not a realistic solution nowadays, 
cleaner production techniques and closed-loop recycling systems should be pursue to complement 
the implementation of digital solutions to mitigate WTs life cycle resource consumption and 
environmental impacts. 
Alternatively, collaborative consumption models can be deployed for a more efficient production 
and consumption of wind energy through the optimisation of the system operational performance, 
which can be further pursue through the hybridisation of wind farms by integrating multiple 
technologies for renewable energy generation in combination with energy storage systems. Once 
in operation, the lifespan of WTs can be extended through retrofitting CBMs.   
When a wind farm reaches the end of its service life, dismantled WTs and components can be i) 
reused in other wind farms if they are in an appropriate condition, ii) refurbished and/or 
remanufactured for a second and/or multiple subsequent use cycles (e.g. towers, gearboxes and/or 
entire WTs), iii) repurposed for reuse in different industrial and/or urban applications (e.g. wind 
turbine blades), or iv) recycled to recover some materials (e.g. mostly metals and plastics).  
Nevertheless, each wind energy project is unique and the decision to foster one or several CE 
strategies driven by CBMs is highly project-specific, as it depends on the site constraints, safety 
issues, technologies performance and reliability, and the whole economic balance. Accordingly, 
building robust CE business cases is essential to demonstrate the sustainability benefits of 
implementing CBMs in the wind industry. This requires active collaboration between OEMs, 
suppliers, wind park owners, asset managers, operation and maintenance service providers, off-
takers, policymakers and researchers.  
Indeed, a CE plan should be prepared from the early stage of project conceptualisation and design, 
and address the whole life cycle of wind farms, based on a shared vision on the best CE strategies 
with the goal of maximising sustainability benefits. In this process, it is essential to address and 
respond properly to the 10 challenges highlighted above. 
References  
Amponsah N.Y., Troldborg M., Kington B., Aalders I., Hough R.L., 2014. Greenhouse gas emissions from 
renewable energy sources: A review of lifecycle considerations. Renewable and Sustainable Energy 
Reviews. 39: 461-475.  
Bocken NMP, de Paw I, Bakker C, van der Grinten B, 2016. Product design and business model strategies for 
a circular economy. Journal of Industrial Production and Engineering. 33: 308-320. 
EEA, 2021. A framework for enabling circular business models in Europe. Brussels: European Environment 
Agency (EEA). 
European Commission, 2022. HORIZON-CL5-2022-D3-01-02. Demonstration of innovative materials, supply 
cycles, recycling technologies to increase the overall circularity of wind energy technology and to 
reduce the primary use of critical raw materials. 
https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
356 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-cl5-2022-d3-01-02. 
Accessed: 31 January 2022. 
Jensen J.P., 2019. Evaluating the environmental impacts of recycling wind turbines. Wind Energy. 22(2): 316-
326. 
Jensen J.P., Skelton K., 2018. Wind turbine blade recycling: Experiences, challenges and possibilities in a 
circular economy. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Review. 97: 165-176. 
Konietko J., Bocken N., Hultink E.J., 2020. A Tool to Analyze, Ideate and Develop Circular Innovation 
Ecosystems. Sustainability 12(1): 417. 
Li J., Peng K., Wang P., Zhang N., Feng K., Guan D., Meng J., Wei W., Yang Q., 2020. Critical Rare-Earth Elements 
Mismatch Global Wind-Power Ambitions. One Earth. 3: 116-125. 
Liu P., Barlow C.Y. Wind turbine blade waste in 2050. Waste Management. 62: 229-240.  
Mendoza, J.M.F., Gallego-Schmid A., Velenturf A.P.M., Jensen P.D., Ibarra, D. 2022. Circular economy business 
models and technology management strategies in the wind industry: sustainability potential, 
industrial challenges and opportunities. Under review in journal. 
Nichifor M.A.,2015. Sustainable business models for wind and solar energy in Romania. Manag Mark: Chall 
Knowl Soc 10(1): 53-52. 
Lobregt M., Kamper S., Besselink J., Knol E., Coolen E., 2021. The ideation process focused on circular 
strategies in the wind industry. Zoetermeer: ECHT regie in transitie B.V and Het Versnellinghuis 
Nederland Circulair!. 
Razdan P., Garrett P., 2019. Life Cycle Assessment of Electricity Production from an onshore V136-4.2 MW 
Wind Plant. Aarhus: Vestas Wind Systems A/S. 
Rosa P., Sassanelli C., Terzi S., 2020. Circular Business Models versus circular benefits: An assessment in the 
waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipments sector. Journal of Cleaner Production 231: 940-952. 
UNEP, 2019. Emissions Gap Report 2019. Nairobi: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP); 2019. 
Velenturf, A.P.M., 2021. A Framework and Baseline for the Integration of a Sustainable Circular Economy in 
Offshore Wind. Energies. 14, 5540.  
Velenturf A.P.M., Purnell P., Jensen P.D., 2021. Reducing material criticality through circular business models: 
Challenges in renewable energy. One Earth 4(3): 350-352. 
Wind Europe, 2020. Accelerating Wind Turbine Blade Circularity. Brussels: Wind Europe; 2020. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
357 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Circular Business Models and 
Theoretical Anchoring: Are We 
There? 
 
Roberta De Angelis*  
Cardiff Business School, Department of Marketing and Strategy, 
Cardiff (UK)  
*deangelisr@cardiff.ac.uk  
Extended Abstract* 
The magnitude of the ecological, economic and social sustainability challenges of this historical 
juncture, including climate change and a broken economy resulting from the outbreak of COVID-19 
pandemic, makes a strong case for the transition towards a more resource efficient and resilient 
circular economy (CE) (Desing et al., 2020; Mohammed et al., 2021). For one, within the context of 
our current climate emergency, by transforming the way in which we make and use products, 
particularly across five key areas (cement, aluminium, steel, plastics, and food), CE principles can 
eliminate 9.3 billion tonnes of CO2 emissions in 2050 (EMF, 2019). What is more, circularity is a huge 
source of new profit pools. Several business leaders have started capitalising on circularity benefits 
via reduced costs, enhanced sales and mitigation of linear-related risks: it is estimated that a global 
economic opportunity worth $4.5 trillion can be unlocked by 2030 through the implementation of 
CE principles (WBCSD, 2021).  
In parallel with the rising interest towards the CE in business and policy contexts, CE thinking has 
entered the scholarly literature contributing to the advent of a novel field of academic enquiry 
(Goyal et al., 2021). Yet, understanding of CE remains multifaceted and in need of both 
consolidation, and a common theoretical background (Borrello et al., 2020; Webster et al., 2021). 
Hence, the rationale of this research paper is to contribute to the much needed conceptual and 
theoretical clarity in the CE field. To accomplish its goals, this article suggests a range of theories 
that can be used for the theoretical coupling of research on circular business models (CBMs). 
Theoretically grounded CBMs studies are scarce. In fact, Geissdoerfer et al. (2020) lament that 
 
* This extended abstract is based on: De Angelis, R. (2021). Circular Economy Business Models: 
a Repertoire of Theoretical Relationships and a Research Agenda. Circular Economy and 
Sustainability, https://doi.org/10.1007/s43615-021-00133-x. This article is published open access 
and 
is 
licensed 
under 
a 
Creative 
Commons 
Attribution 
4.0 
International 
License, 
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
358 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
“despite the importance of the circular business model notion, there is considerable lack of clarity 
about its theoretical conceptualisation” (p. 1). 
To build such a theoretical repertoire, this article line of enquiry hinges upon the business models 
(BMs) literature. Since CBMs are one of the offshoots of the BM concept, it is appropriate to couple 
the theoretical foundations of CBMs with those underlying the mainstream BMs literature. BMs 
research is positioned within the strategic management literature (Ritter and Lettl, 2018). 
Consequently, this article makes links with the strategic management literature, and, particularly, 
with the natural-resource-based-view of the firm (Hart, 1995). Not only is this useful to establish 
consistency among the lines of enquiry characterising BMs and CBMs research but also a strategic 
management perspective fits with the competitiveness dimension of CBMs and is pertinent to 
advance current understanding of CE business strategies. Research on the micro level, and so on 
the organisational dimension of the CE and CBM innovation, is limited (Barreiro-Gen and Lozano, 
2020; Hofmann and Jaeger-Erben, 2020; Khitous et al., 2020).  
Furthermore, this article draws on sustainability transitions and systems theories, which have 
received some application in corporate sustainability and CE studies (e.g., Sarasini and Linder, 2018; 
Tate et al., 2019; Webster, 2013; Williams et al., 2017). Transitions theories - with their 
multidimensional and multi-actor focus - are appropriate to investigate the complexities involved 
in systemic innovations, which are also crucial for the emergence and scaling up of CBMs. Coupling 
CBMs experimentation studies with transitions lenses is deemed appropriate in current research 
on CBMs (Bocken et al., 2021). In fact, although CBMs innovation stems from 
individual/organisational agency, structure must be aligned so that CBMs can effectively emerge 
and reach significant scale. Additionally, CE thinking is informed by complexity and systems thinking 
(EMF & McKinsey, 2012, 2013; Fehrer & Wieland, 2020). This means that the theoretical coupling 
of CBMs cannot do without the establishment of a relationship with systems theory, which is rarely 
captured in current CBMs studies. This is much welcomed in the CE literature with Rovanto and 
Bask (2020) lamenting that the relationship between CE and CBMs “is still rather informal and ill-
defined” (p. 5).  
Concepts and theories evolve through three different stages: introduction and elaboration, 
evaluation and augmentation, and consolidation and accommodation (Reichers and Schneider, 
1990). CE thinking has yet to move beyond stage one. It is hoped that this article line of enquiry is 
useful to stimulate academic debate as how to advance the theoretical foundations of CBMs 
research. Arguably, as correctly put by Bansal and Song (2017), “an academic field’s development 
is aided by a consensual research” (p. 106).  
Keywords  
circular business models, systems thinking, strategic management, transitions theories. 
References 
Bansal, T. & Song, H-C.  (2017). Similar but not the same: Differentiating corporate sustainability from 
corporate responsibility. Academy of Management Annals, 11, 105-149. 
Barreiro-Gen, M. & Lozano, R. (2020). How circular is the circular economy? Analysing the implementation of 
circular economy in organisations. Business Strategy and the Environment, DOI: 10.1002/bse.2590. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
359 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Bocken, N., Weissbrod, I. & Antikainen, M. (2021). Business model experimentation for the circular economy: 
Definition and approaches. Circular Economy and Sustainability, https://doi.org/10.1007/s43615-
021-00026-z 
Borrello, M., Pascucci, S., & Cembalo, L. (2020). Three propositions to unify circular economy research: A 
review. Sustainability, 12, 4069. 
Desing, H., Brunner, D., Takacs, F., Nahrath, S., Frankenberger, K., & Hischier, R. (2020). A circular economy 
within the planetary boundaries: Towards a resource-based, systemic approach. Resources, 
Conservation and Recycling, 155, 104673. 
EMF (Ellen MacArthur Foundation). (2019). Completing the picture. How the circular economy tackles climate 
change. 
Retrieved 
May 
2021 
from 
https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/publications/completing-the-picture-climate-change 
EMF & McKinsey. (2012). Towards the circular economy: Economic and business rationale for an accelerated 
transition. Retrieved May 2013 from http://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/business/reports  
EMF & McKinsey. (2013). Towards the circular economy: Opportunities for the consumer goods sector. 
Retrieved November 2013, from http://www.ellen- macarthurfoundation.org/business/reports. 
Fehrer, J., & Wieland, H. (2021). A systemic logic for circular business models. Journal of Business Research, 
125, 609-620. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Pieroni, M., Pigosso, D., & Soufani, K. (2020). Circular business models: A review. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 277, 123741. 
Goyal, S., Chauhan, S., & Mishra, P.  (2021). Circular economy research: A bibliometric analysis (2000 - 2019) 
and future research insights. Journal of Cleaner Production, 287, 125011. 
Hart, S. (1995).  A natural-resource-based-view of the firm. Academy of Management Review, 20, 986-1014.  
Hofmann, F., & Jaeger-Erben, M. (2020). Organizational transition management of circular business model 
innovations. Business Strategy and the Environment, 29, 2770-2788. 
Khitous, F., Strozzi, F., Urbinati, A., & Alberti, F. (2020). A systematic literature network analysis of existing 
themes and emerging research trends in circular economy. Sustainability, 12, 1633. 
Mohammed, T., Mustapha K., & Godsell, J. et al., (2021). A critical analysis of the impacts of COVID-19 on the 
global economy and ecosystems and opportunities for circular economy strategies. Resources, 
Conservation and Recycling, 164, 105169. 
Reichers, A., & Schneider, B. (1990). Climate and culture: An evolution of constructs. In Schneider, B. (ed.). 
Organizational Climate and Culture. Jossey-Bass, San Francisco, pp. 5-29. 
Ritter, T. & Lettl, C. (2018). The wider implications of business-model research. Long Range Planning, 51, 1-8. 
Rovanto, I. & Bask, A.  (2020). Systemic circular business model application at the company, supply chain and 
society levels—A view into circular economy native and adopter companies. Business Strategy and 
the Environment, DOI: 10.1002/bse.2677 
Sarasini, S. & Linder, M. (2018). Integrating a business model perspective into transition theory: The example 
of new mobility services. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, 27, 16–31. 
Tate, W., Bals, L., Bals, C. & Foerstl, K. (2019). Seeing the forest and not the trees: Learning from nature’s 
circular economy. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 149, 115-129. 
WBCSD. (2021). Factor 10. Retrieved May 2021 from https://www.wbcsd.org/Programs/Circular-
Economy/Factor-10 
Webster, K. (2021). A circular economy is about the economy. Circular Economy and Sustainability, 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s43615-021-00034-z. 
Webster, K. (2013). What might we say about a circular economy? Some temptations to avoid if possible. 
World Futures, 69, 542–554. 
Williams, A., Kennedy, S., Philipp, F. & Whiteman, G. (2017). System thinking: A review of sustainability 
management research. Journal of Cleaner Production, 148, 866-881. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
360 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
From cooperation to collaboration: 
value co-creation and preservation 
for circular bio-economy  
 
Collaborative business models and business 
ecosystems in the bio-based and biodegradable 
plastics industry  
Eleonora Foschi1,*,+, Angelo Paletta1, Genc Alimehmeti2 
1Department of Management, University of Bologna; +Centre for 
Sustainability and Climate Change of Bologna Business School 
*Eleonora.foschi3@unibo.it  
Extended abstract 
Introduction 
The social concerns about marine plastic pollution and the normative pressure on single-use have 
boosted the demand for bio-based and biodegradable plastics, which is expected to quintuple by 
2024 (European Bioplastics, 2021). Because of their properties, these materials force a complete 
redesign of products, supply chains and value propositions with resulting innovation-oriented 
processes (Batista et al., 2018). Although value co-creation emerged as crucial when actors shared 
common interests (Jonker et al., 2020), innovation remains technical/technological and relegated 
to the business dimension. Conversely, socio-technical innovation is ensured when synergies are 
enlarged to non-industrial stakeholders (Antikainen et al., 2016). Specifically, collaboration over 
value networks plays a pivotal role in a circular economy where value is retained in further 
production and consumption cycles. Practically, organizations driven by a circularity paradigm 
adopt an anticipatory approach to look beyond a single organisation's borders and identify and 
prevent value losses circumstances (Ruggieri et al., 2016). To be circular, bio-based and 
biodegradable plastics should circulate in the biological cycle of the butterfly diagram designed by 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2019). It implies socio-technical conditions and infrastructures and 
the engagement of business and non-business actors, including consumers, recyclers, 
municipalities and policy-makers (Harangozó and Zilahy, 2015). This paper leverages cooperation 
theories to map, categorize, and characterize existing cooperation models in the bio-based and bio-
degradable plastics industry to analyze the dynamics facilitating value co-creation on one side and 
value preservation on another.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
361 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
To reach the scope, the present study is confined to the European context and considers inter-
organizational cooperation, both horizontal and vertical, with multi-stakeholder engagement.  
Coordination, cooperation and collaboration: antecedents and outcomes 
The bio-based and biodegradable plastics industry necessitates the involvement of different 
stakeholders - from supply chains (agriculture, starch/sugar refinery, chemical/biotechnology 
industry, plastics manufacturing, plastics conversion, brand owners, retailers, consumers) to 
governments, communities, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and public-research 
organizations (PROs). While some are based on R&D to foster the commercialization of innovative 
end-products, others work at multiple levels to set up the system by increasing consumers 
awareness, facilitating legislative harmonization and making the materials competitive with their 
fossil-based counterparts. Each action rests on specific attitudes and behaviours that enfold 
different collaboration, coordination, and cooperation forms. While cooperation can be intended 
as “the process through which parties who see different aspects of a problem can constructively 
explore their differences and search for solutions that go beyond their own limited vision of what is 
possible” (Gray, 1989), collaboration brings together nonconnected or competitive stakeholders to 
arrange more tightly organized interrelationship with collective decision-making (Hartman et al., 
1999). In this regard, cooperation refers to those cases when parties share tacit information, the 
level of trust among them is low, and the parties are loosely coupled. Coordination refers to the 
instances where there is a coordination of activities among parties, when they follow semi-
interdependent goals, and when they align their resources, but the power remains within the 
organization. The level of connection among parties is medium, with a work-based trust. While in 
the case of collaboration, parties have dense interdependent relations, accompanied by high 
confidence and sharing of tactical information. They share resources and power among them and 
have the same negotiated goal. In light of the stakeholder theory, this study investigates how 
circular bio-economy pragmatically fosters form of cooperation, collaboration, and coordination 
among multiple actors to guarantee the value retention of bio-based and biodegradable plastics. 
Methods 
Based on a comprehensive literature review, a research framework has been set up to analyze the 
type of actors and the level of engagement per each form of interaction. Hereinafter, we have the 
models from a resource dependency perspective and relational approach, considering existing 
strategic partnerships, associations, alliances, networks, joint-ventures, and consortia operating in 
the bio-based and biodegradable plastics industry. Per each category, we have first analyzed the 
composition and then investigated a. the level of connection, b. the level of trust and c. the type of 
information, resources and power shared to discuss which and how they contribute to co-create 
and/or preserve the value of bio-based and bio-degradable materials in a circular-bio-economy 
paradigm. 
Results and Discussion  
The study reveals that forms of collaboration prevail where business stakeholders are involved. 
Cooperation is common when business stakeholders interact with non-business actors. Specifically, 
materials producers consider the supply of renewable resources as one of the priorities in the 
transition process towards circularity (Potting et al., 2017). Bio-based and biodegradable plastics 
are generally perceived as eco-friendly materials able to address the urgent problem of marine 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
362 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
plastics pollution. However, cooperation models entirely focused on bio-based and biodegradable 
plastics are few compared to those working on conventional plastics (that have dominated the 
market for the last fifty years). Looking at the categories, alliances are generally EU-based and deal 
with the problems of raw materials supply and waste management. However, little attention is paid 
to production and consumption patterns. Driven by the need to strengthen market demand, share 
commercial data and make knowledge accessible to all the involved parties, associations are 
widespread, especially at the national level. Networks have similar approaches to associations, but 
the mission may differ widely since the goal is comprehensive, the number of stakeholders engaged 
high, and the outcomes less impactful. Consortia, mainly dealing with extended-producer 
responsibility (EPR) schemes, exist but remain linked to conventional plastic waste management. A 
robust interaction is rather evident in joint ventures, mainly based on the need to integrate 
different expertise, thus strengthening collaboration among raw materials producers, 
compounders, and converters. Finally, only a few strategic partnerships among end-product 
manufacturers and waste managers have been registered.  
Conclusions 
Our study makes contributions on both a theoretical and a managerial level. A theoretical lens 
explores the dynamics beyond stakeholder theory and circularity mission. At the managerial level, 
it explores and characterizes the forms of interactions that exist in the bio-based and biodegradable 
plastics industry. The results show that coordination and collaboration mechanisms do play a crucial 
role in the commercialization of innovative solutions. Still, new forms of cooperation are needed to 
foster a business ecosystem supporting the loop closing. Indeed, while value co-creation is an 
imperative, value preservation is still in the background. Collaborative business models, based on a 
user-centric perspective, with an approach to life cycle thinking, are necessary to achieve a full 
circular bio-economy in that industry. 
Keywords  
Circular economy, business models, cooperation, collaboration, bio-based plastics. 
References  
Antikainen, M. and Valkokari, K., (2016) A framework for sustainable circular business model 
innovation. Technology Innovation Management Review, 6(7). 
Batista, L., Bourlakis, M., Liu, Y., Smart, P. and Sohal, A., (2018) Supply chain operations for a circular 
economy. Production Planning & Control, 29(6), pp.419-424. 
Ellen 
MacArthur 
Foundation 
(2019). 
Circular 
economy 
systems 
diagram. 
Available 
from: 
www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org  
European Bioplastics (2021) Bioplastics facts and figures. Available from: https://docs.european-
bioplastics.org/publications/EUBP_Facts_and_figures.pdf [Accessed 15th February 2022] 
Gray, B. (1989) Collaborating: Finding Common Ground for Multiparty Solutions. San Francisco, CA.: Jossey-
Bass. 
Harangozó, G. and Zilahy, G. (2015) Cooperation between business and non-governmental organizations to 
promote sustainable development, Journal of Cleaner Production, 89, pp. 18–31.  
Hartman, C. L., Hofman, P. S. and Stafford, E. R. (1999) Partnerships: a path to Sustainability,  Business 
Strategy and the Environment, 8(5), pp. 255–266. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
363 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Jonker, J., Berkers, F.T.H.M., Derks, M., Montenegro Navarro, N., Wieclawska, S., Speijer, F., Ploegman, K. and 
Engels, H., )2020) Collaborative business models for transition. TNO Report, pp.1-42. 
Potting, J., Hekkert, M.P., Worrell, E. and Hanemaaijer, A., (2017) Circular economy: measuring innovation in 
the product chain (No. 2544). PBL publishers. 
Ruggieri, A.; Braccini, A.M.; Poponi, S.; Mosconi, E.M. (2016) A Meta-Model of Inter-Organisational 
Cooperation for the Transition to a Circular Economy. Sustainability , 8 (11), 1153.  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
364 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Including New Business Models 
Thinking in The Humanitarian Sector 
 
Transitioning From Reactive Humanitarian Responses 
to New Preemptive Development Solutions. The Case 
of Small Island Developing States in The South Pacific.  
Alice Giardi1,*, Dr. Bartjan Pennink1 
1University of Groningen  
*a.giardi@student.rug.nl  
Extended Abstract 
The linear economic system of production and consumption is problematic under many points of 
view. It implies a non-stop exploitation of natural resources, it increases climate change, and it 
generates enormous amounts of waste and pollution, among other down-sides. The negative 
effects of this system can be even more evident in situations of vulnerability, where the 
development factor is ultimately overshadowed by the urgency of humanitarian interventions. 
Some of the most vulnerable countries in the world are located in the South Pacific area, and 
climate change and the scarcity of resources are exacerbating their already existing vulnerabilities. 
For instance, it is anticipated that the effect of global warming on coral reefs will seriously impact 
earnings from fisheries and tourism, which are fundamental sources of income for the inhabitants 
of the area. Moreover, according to the Pacific Islands Forum and as mentioned in the 2050 Strategy 
for the Blue Pacific Continent (2021), natural disasters such as floods and droughts, increasingly 
frequent, cost South Pacific countries an average of 2%of their GPD each year, and unemployment 
and suicide rate are at their highest. Small Island Developing States (SIDS) in the South Pacific are 
especially threatened by this situation, since the source of their national income is strictly linked to 
a clean and preserved environment.  
The region’s geographical vastity and scatter represents an obstacle for economic development, 
since these small remote areas are located far away from the main consumer markets, and far from 
the major global trade routes. Moreover, a connectivity challenge exists within the region, among 
different islands and areas. This geographical isolation dissuades foreign investments, and it 
represent an obstacle for economic growth. For this reason, many communities depend on 
migration, allowances, and humanitarian assistance, which reduces their capacity building and their 
power to advocate for themselves and their communities. Therefore, it is vital to include peoples 
and lands in this area into the conversation about innovative NMBs, and encourage them to be first 
actors into its design.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
365 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
From 2018 progress has been made in regard to the management of waste in the South Pacific area. 
For instance, the Samoa Recycling and Waste Management Association represented the first step 
towards a system of circular economy in the South Pacific Region. But progress is still necessary in 
this regard. According to the Director General of the Secretariat of the Pacific Regional Environment 
Program, for the South Pacific Islands to benefit from a circular economy, new innovative business 
models are required. For instance, new methods for the final return of materials to the soil, or 
innovative approaches for the industrial production system, as well as new tailored policies to 
incentivize the private sector. In this research we will investigate ways of realizing this. 
Aim of the research 
A shift towards a proactive, environmentally sustainable, and development-oriented approach 
could be beneficial for humanitarian emergency situations such as the one in the South Pacific SIDS. 
This research will investigate what can be learned from the application of a system of circular 
economy in the analyzed area and how this transition could increase resilience for present and 
future economic and environmental threats. Moreover, it will investigate the ways in which 
indigenous knowledge could inform and guide this radical shift towards a global circular economy. 
Circular economy is based on recycling, repairing, remanufacturing, reusing and finally managing 
waste and pollution in a way that is beneficial and harmless for our environment. Shifting to a 
circular economy can have economic, social, and environmental benefits such as reducing the 
demand for natural resources, reducing waste and pollution, creating jobs, and promoting 
innovation. Therefore, recognizing the importance of new business models in humanitarian 
emergencies would highlight the importance of development-oriented projects and long-term 
solutions, valuing proactivity as opposed to the reactivity-based approach adopted so far in the 
humanitarian field. 
Design / Research methods 
The research will be based on three pillars: 
A literature review of new business model theories, such as, but not limited to, circular economy, 
exploring practical examples in which they have already been applied to humanitarian situations, 
with a focus on the South Pacific area. 
Interviews to several experts in this field will be included, at least a Senior Policy Officer at the Dutch 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the lead of the All-India Disaster Mitigation Institute (AIDEMI) on 
Climate Change Adaptation and integration of development approaches and climate change in 
modern humanitarian responses. More experts (a Campaigner for the NGO Survival International) 
will be looked for.11  
Finally, as the third pillar we will try to work out what it could mean for SIDS to apply the Circular 
Economy Model. 
Based on these three pillars we will answer our main research question. How can the use of the 
concept of Circular Economy, being development-oriented, improve the humanitarian aid 
approach, traditionally reaction-oriented?  
 
11 The interview method will be based on Chapter IX of the manual “The Practice of Social Research” by Earl 
R. Babbie.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
366 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Value of the research 
Greening the humanitarian system to adapt it to the impacts of climate end environmental crises is 
nowadays in the spotlight. Interest is constantly raising for the integration of environmental 
protection in humanitarian responses. For instance, in 2021 the IFRC drafted a Climate and 
Environment Charter for Humanitarian Organizations (2021) to improve the environmental 
sustainability of the humanitarian sector. Important elements mentioned in the Charter are cutting 
greenhouse emissions, contrasting biodiversity loss and environmental degradation, and 
addressing the damage caused by the impact of crises.  
Exploring innovative business models could help the transition from a reactive to a proactive 
approach, fundamental to tackling modern humanitarian emergencies. In fact, in contrast with the 
past years, the amount of humanitarian crises happening simultaneously has constantly risen, and 
the majority of these are protracted in time and hence in need of updated long-term solutions 
designed with a developmental approach. The focus on the SIDS in the South Pacific is justified by 
the good example these islands provide of a humanitarian situation where already existing 
vulnerabilities are worsened by the climate emergency situation, and could benefit from the 
implementation of new environmentally friendly business models such as the circular economy. 
This research will therefore look for point of junction between two opposite fields of work: on one 
side the Humanitarian Action, result-oriented and addressing the direct consequences of 
emergency situations, and on the other side development models, sustainable, addressing the roots 
of the crises worldwide and which aims to prevent instead of curing. Judging NBMs as an integral 
part of the development field, the aim of the research is to showcase how NMBs can be of support 
and make the humanitarian field more sustainable, creating shared value and addressing 
humanitarian issues in a holistic perspective.  
Keywords  
New business models, circular economy, humanitarian emergencies, development, environmental 
protection, sustainable.  
 
References 
Bianchini, A., Rossi, J. and Pellegrini, M., (2019). Overcoming the main barriers of circular economy 
implementation through a new visualization tool for circular business models. Sustainability, 11(23), 
6614. 
Dahiya, B. and Okitasari, M., (2018). Partnering for Sustainable Development Guidelines for Multi-
stakeholder Partnerships to Implement the 2030 Agenda in Asia and the Pacific. ESCAP. 1-70. 
Available at: https://www.unescap.org/sites/default/d8files/knowledge-
products/MSP%20Guidelines.pdf 
ESCAP, U., (2017). Achieving the 2030 agenda for sustainable development in the Pacific. ESCAP. Available 
at: https://repository.unescap.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.12870/3126/ESCAP-2017-
RPAchieving-2030-agenda-sustainable-development-Pacific.pdf?sequence=1&isAllowed=y 
Halog, A. and Anieke, S., (2021). A review of circular economy studies in developed countries and its potential 
adoption in developing countries. Circular Economy and Sustainability. Springer. 1(1), 209-230. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
367 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent 
Societies (IFRC), (2021). The Climate and Environment Charter for Humanitarian Organizations. 
Available at: https://www.climate-charter.org/  
Jonker, J., (2012). New Business Models: an explorative study of changing transactions creating multiple 
value(s). Nijmegen School of Management. 1-52. 
Jonker, J., Stegeman, H. and Faber, N., (2017). The Circular Economy-Developments, concepts, and research 
in search for corresponding business models. Whitepaper. 1-27. 
Kalmykova, Y., Sadagopan, M. and Rosado, L., (2018). Circular economy–From review of theories and 
practices to development of implementation tools. Resources, conservation, and recycling, 135, 190-
201.  
Kapfudzaruwa, F., Kanie, N., Weinberger, K., Mallee, H. and Ishii, A., (2017). The sustainable development 
goals and regional institutions: exploring their role in Asia and the Pacific. United Nations University 
Institute for the Advanced Study of Sustainability. 
Kumar, N., (2019). Closing the Gaps in Social and Physical Infrastructure for Achieving Sustainable 
Development Goals in Asia and the Pacific. Millennial Asia, 10(3), 372-394. 
Morseletto, P., (2020). Targets for a circular economy. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 153, 104-553. 
Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat, (2021). 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent - Pacific Forum on 
Sustainable Development. Pacific Islands Forum. Available at: 
https://www.unescap.org/sites/default/files/Session%202%20-
%20Regional%20coherence%20and%20sustainable%20development_%5BPIFS%5D_1.pdf 
Tayebi-Khorami, M., Edraki, M., Corder, G. and Golev, A., (2019). Re-thinking mining waste through an 
integrative approach led by circular economy aspirations. Minerals, 9(5), 286. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
368 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
How do circular businesses scale 
up?  
 
Dihui Han1,*, Nancy Bocken1, Jan Konietzko1,  
Marc Dijk1 
1Maastricht Sustainability Institute, School of Business and Economics 
Maastricht University, Tapijn 11, 6211 ME Maastricht 
*d.han@maastrichtuniversity.nl  
Extended abstract 
The circular economy is an alternative paradigm to a wasteful linear economy where products have 
limited product lifetimes and are prematurely disposed of (Geissdoerfer et al., 2017; Heshmati, 
2017). A circular economy is “restorative or regenerative by intention and design” (Ellen Macarthur 
Foundation, 2013, p.7). Companies innovate towards circularity by narrowing, closing, slowing and 
regenerating resource loops (Bocken et al., 2016; Konietzko et al., 2020).   
In recent years, both start-ups and incumbents have explored these circular strategies by innovating 
their products, services and business models (Bocken et al., 2021). Out of the two, many scholars 
see start-ups as more flexible and responsive to market changes (Henry et al., 2020; Rizos et al., 
2016). Hence, they may be better positioned to adopt disruptive circular innovation practices, and 
act as accelerators towards a circular economy.  
It is vital to understand the scaling process of circular business model initiatives to intensify the 
development towards circular business (Sandberg & Hultberg, 2021). However, there are only a 
handful of scale-up examples across different sectors. Moreover, circular scale-ups have not yet 
been analysed as a distinct category. At the same time, there is also a lack of theory to explain how 
circular start-ups or initiatives scale up. Recent studies exploring scaling in the circular economy are 
still novel with limited empirical data. Up to this point, fewer than ten research articles on this topic 
were identified (e.g., Guyader & Piscielli, 2019, Sandberg & Hultberg, 2021). These papers focus on 
specific sectors only that lacked empirical insight. For example, recent studies on the fashion 
industry found that traditional and non-traditional scaling strategies were applied (Hultberg & Pal, 
2021; Pal et al., 2021; Sandberg & Hultberg, 2021).  
According to Sandberg & Hultberg (2021), social enterprise literature can help understand the 
scaling logic beyond traditional economic growth based on an individual organisation’s 
geographical expansion. They noted that circular businesses with a sustainability mindset should 
include different scaling logics to encompass other representations of scale, such as impact. 
Chembessi et al. (2021) contributed to this idea through their investigation into the impact of 
scaling on the broader socio-economic landscape. For example, a multilevel view on scaling that 
introduces “scaling up” and “scaling deep” to the traditional growth objectives of “scaling out’’ can 
be a useful theoretical lens (Bauwens et al., 2020). According to Riddell & Moore (2015), “scaling 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
369 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
up” entails the impact at the institutional level, such as policy and laws, while “scaling deep” focuses 
more on the impact on culture. Furthermore, there is little research on the challenges and 
corresponding solutions of scaling in a circular business context. Some initial research suggested 
the challenges may be related to the transition from linear to circular (Khan et al., 2020) and 
competing value logic (Sandberg & Hultberg, 2021). This study seeks to contribute to the 
understanding of scaling for circular businesses by answering the following research questions:  
How do circular businesses scale up?  
1a. What factors drive and constraint companies scaling circular business models?  
1b. What strategies do companies use to anticipate these factors?  
What pathways do companies use to scale up circular business models? 
Explorative qualitative approaches are selected for this research. To answer the proposed research 
questions, we devise a three-step approach. First, a literature review is conducted to define circular 
scale-ups and scan scaling approaches used by businesses. Both business management and 
interdisciplinary sustainability literature serve as the foundation to provide a more thorough 
understanding of circular scale-ups (Riddel & Moore, 2015, Stampfl et al., 2015, Tauscher & 
Abdelkafi, 2018). Second, a practice review of existing circular scale-ups is conducted to support 
and enrich the findings from the literature review. The practice review seeks to include cases 
spanning from various countries and sectors. The practice review includes examples from sectors 
such as food, mobility, electronics, furniture, fashion and consumer goods, where circular 
businesses have scaled up. Third, semi-structured interviews are conducted from select companies 
from the practice review to complement the existing findings and learn from businesses on the 
approaches to scale-up.  
This study aims to contribute to the current circular innovation literature in three ways. First, based 
on multidisciplinary literature review, we define circular scale-ups. Second, based on the practice 
review and semi-structured interviews, we investigate the challenges companies face when scaling 
and various approaches they have used to overcome these challenges. Third, through our practice 
review, we contribute to the research topic empirically by providing examples from different 
sectors. For practitioners, this study can function as a roadmap to guide in their scaling efforts, 
aiming to achieve scale to accelerate the circular transformation.   
Keywords  
Circular Business Model; Scaling; Circular Business Model Innovation; Experimentation; Circular 
Economy; Sustainable Impact.  
 
References  
Bauwens, T., Huybrechts, B., & Dufays, F. (2020). Understanding the diverse scaling strategies of social 
enterprises as hybrid organisations: The case of renewable energy cooperatives. Organization & 
Environment, 33(2), 195-219. 
Bocken, N. M., Schuit, C. S., & Kraaijenhagen, C. (2018). Experimenting with a circular business model: Lessons 
from eight cases. Environmental innovation and societal transitions, 28, 79-95. 
Bocken, N. M., Weissbrod, I., & Antikainen, M. (2021). Business model experimentation for the circular 
economy: definition and approaches. Circular Economy and Sustainability, 1(1), 49-81. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
370 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Bocken, N. M. (2021). Circular business models: Mapping experimentation in multinational firms. In Circular 
Economy (pp. 63-84). Routledge. 
Chembessi, C., Beaurain, C., & Cloutier, G. (2021). Understanding the scaling-up of a Circular Economy (CE) 
through a strategic niche management (SNM) theory: a socio-political perspective from Quebec. 
Environmental Challenges, 5, 100362. 
Ellen MacArthur. (2013). Towards the circular economy: Opportunities for the consumer goods sector. Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M., & Hultink, E. J. (2017). The Circular Economy–A new 
sustainability paradigm?. Journal of cleaner production, 143, 757-768. 
Guyader, H., & Piscicelli, L. (2019). Business model diversification in the sharing economy: The case of GoMore. 
Journal of cleaner production, 215, 1059-1069. 
Heshmati, A. (2017). A Review of the Circular Economy and its Implementation. International Journal of Green 
Economics, 11(3-4), 251-288. 
Henry, M., Bauwens, T., Hekkert, M., & Kirchherr, J. (2020). A typology of circular start-ups: An Analysis of 
128 circular business models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 245, 118528. 
Khan, O., Daddi, T., Iraldo, F., 2020. Microfoundations of dynamic capabilities: insights from circular economy 
business cases. Bus. Strat. Environ. 29 (3), 1479–1493. 
Konietzko, J., Bocken, N., & Hultink, E. J. (2020). A tool to analyse, ideate and develop circular innovation 
ecosystems. Sustainability, 12(1), 417. 
PACE (2022). Partners. Accessed 31 January 2022 at: https://pacecircular.org/partners 
Pal, R., Samie, Y., & Chizaryfard, A. (2021). Demystifying process-level scalability challenges in fashion 
remanufacturing: An interdependence perspective. Journal of Cleaner Production, 286, 125498. 
Riddell, D., & Moore, M. L. (2015). Scaling out, Scaling up, Scaling deep: Advancing systemic social innovation 
and the learning processes to support it. JW McConnell Family Foundation and Tamarack Institute, 
Toronto and Waterloo, ON. 
Rizos, V., Behrens, A., Van der Gaast, W., Hofman, E., Ioannou, A., Kafyeke, T., ... & Topi, C. (2016). 
Implementation of circular economy business models by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs): 
Barriers and enablers. Sustainability, 8(11), 1212. 
Sandberg, E., & Hultberg, E. (2021). Dynamic capabilities for the scaling of circular business model initiatives 
in the fashion industry. Journal of Cleaner Production, 320, 128831. 
Stampfl, G., Prügl, R., & Osterloh, V. (2013). An explorative model of business model scalability. International 
Journal of Product Development, 18(3-4), 226-248. 
Täuscher, K., & Abdelkafi, N. (2018). Scalability and robustness of business models for sustainability: A 
simulation experiment. Journal of Cleaner Production, 170, 654-664. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
371 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Value chain mapping for regenerative 
business model design 
 
Karin Huber-Heim1 and Christopher Kronenberg1,* 
1University of Applied Sciences BFI Vienna 
*christopher.kronenberg@fh-vie.ac.at 
Extended abstract 
1. Problem description 
Due to the irresponsible use of natural resources and the ongoing deterioration of natural 
ecosystems that goes along with it, we are approaching the twilight of the linear economic system. 
Hence the need for transformation on a societal as well as organizational level is imminent. 
Focusing on the organizational and business level, the adaption of existing business models towards 
regenerative circular models is highly necessary – as most of the currently existing business models 
are linear and exhaustive (Goni et al., 2020). Currently, companies still lack the incentives as well as 
capabilities to look at their activities holistically and to balance them economically. To create the 
conditions for companies to become a transformative force for the better, management tools and 
instruments must either be adapted or developed and applied.  
In the past Corporate Social Responsibility concepts (Ortiz et al., 2018) have been applied to linear 
business models, improving or mitigating social, environmental or economic impacts on 
stakeholders, yet significant contribution to the UN Global Goals (UN, 2017) remains a challenge 
for most businesses. At this stage, businesses preserve economic value principles and attempt to 
include environmental solutions. (Landrum, 2017) 
A holistic perspective is needed to avoid lock-ins while at the same time mobilizing opportunities 
to accelerate and strengthen the transformation of companies towards sustainable development. 
If we want previous 'externalities' to be economically reflected and thus become 'internalities', the 
impacts of companies in ecological, social and economic aspects must therefore be analysed and 
reflected along the entire value chain. This includes not only the direct but also the indirect impacts 
in order to get to the bottom of barriers and opportunities for a transition to regenerative business 
models, involving both upstream and downstream processes. 
Transforming and innovating a company’s business model also means to create new and 
appropriate logics of creating value and to design a modified activity system within the company 
(Amit and Zott, 2010). As regenerative circular business models require a broader perspective than 
their linear counterparts, new and holistic approaches to the analysis of value chains are crucial. 
The traditional value chain model in use, mainly shaped by Michael Porter’s contribution to value 
creation and value chain (Porter, 1985), focuses on company internal aspects and is still widely 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
372 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
applied in business practice. The authors argue that to align business with the Global Goals, a 
widened, more holistic perspective on their impacts, in line with a regenerative value chain 
approach needs to be applied. Thus, this holistic approach means that all stakeholders alongside 
with impacts from raw-material extraction and cultivation, logistics, company aspects, use and 
consumption to end-of-life, have to be considered, mapped and analysed to re-design and manage 
a regenerative value creation (Hahn and Tampe, 2020). 
2. Research focus 
This research paper focuses on analysing the barriers and limitations of the traditional value chain 
approach, which primarily focuses on the intra-company aspects of business operations, while not 
including the upstream and downstream impacts and risk analysis required to make a significant 
contribution to sustainable development in line with the United Nations Global Goals. It also 
explores the possibilities of broadening the perspective to a "regenerative business model" and 
"regenerative value creation" by considering business activities and impacts at each stage of the 
process (‘cradle to grave’). 
3. Method 
As the innovation of existing and the design of new regenerative business models and value chains 
is a relatively new topic, we have chosen to adapt an explorative approach to research this may 
need new tools or merely the expansion of the existing for sustainability management. We have 
chosen to apply an abductive multilevel approach for this research. An abductive approach first 
starts with an observation of a phenomena; second, a generalization of the findings of the 
observation, and third, an empirical evaluation of the generalization to gain further insights into 
the topic and to understand if the research process should be repeated (Tavory and Timmermans, 
2014). 
Therefore, and to the more precise, our research is design as follows: 
• 
First, we carry out a qualitative survey to explore the understanding of regenerative 
elements in value chains from a practical perspective. In-depth interviews will be carried 
out with decisions makers within businesses to understand their view on this topic, motives 
and barriers to transform the current value creation mechanism within their business 
towards circular value creation. 
• 
Second, the findings will be theorized and generalized, a generic model of a regenerative 
value chain will be developed from the findings. 
• 
Third, the generalized model of circular value chain will be tested, using focus groups. {Note 
from the authors: at the NBM Conference 2022, findings from the first part of this 
threefolded research process will be presented} 
 
4. Results and conclusion 
At the NBM conference, the authors will present findings from the first research phase; the main 
understanding of regenerative value chains, motive and barriers that support / prevent such a 
transformation will be discussed. These findings will in consequence deliver the input for the second 
research phase, the design of a generic model of a regenerative value chain. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
373 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
As potential results of this research project, we expect more detailed explanation of barriers and 
limitations of currently used value chain models for business transformation toward sustainability. 
We expect to gain insights supporting the conceptualization of a regenerative value chain model as 
well as managerial aspects and challenges of companies when adapting such a model, as for 
example required resources, incentives, knowledge and assistance needed in the creation of 
appropriate conditions. 
Keywords 
Regenerative value creation, regenerative business models, value chain, circular business model, 
sustainable business model 
References 
Amit, R. & Zott, C. (2010) Business Model Innovation: Creating Value in Times of Chain. Working Paper WP-
870, IESE Business School. 
Bocken, N.M.P., Short, S.W., Rana, P., Evans, S. A literature and practice review to develop sustainable 
business model archetypes, Journal of Cleaner Production, Volume 65, 15 February 2014, Pages 42-
56 
Goni, F.A., Chofreh, A.G., Orakani, Z.E., Klemes, J.J., Davoudi, M. & Mardani, A. (2020) Sustainable business 
model: A review and framework development. Clean Technologies and Environmental Policies. 23, 
889-897. 
Hahn, T. & Tampe, M. (2020) Strategies for regenerative business. Strategic Organization, 19(2), 456-477. 
Landrum, Nancy E. (2017) Stages of Corporate Sustainability: Integrating the Strong Sustainability Worldview. 
Organization and Environment, 31(4), 287-313. 
Ortiz, D., Domnanovich, J., Kronenberg, C. & Scholz, M. (2018): Exploring the Integration of Corporate Social 
Responsibility into the Strategies of Small and Medium Sized Enterprises: A Systematic Literature 
Review. Journal of Cleaner Production. 201, 254-271. 
Porter, M. (1985) On Competition. Boston, Harvard Business Review. 
Tavory, I. & Timmermans, S. (2014) Abductive Analysis – Theorizing Qualitative Research. Chicago, The 
University of Chicago Press. 
United Nations (2017) Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 6 July 2017, 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
374 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Filling Competency Gaps through 
Collaboration for Circularity 
 
Insights from a gap exploiter business model 
Emma Johnson1* 
1IIIEE, Lund University  
*emma.johnson@iiiee.lu.se  
Extended abstract 
Introduction 
The transition to a circular economy (CE) necessitates businesses to participate in strategies such 
as reuse, repair, remanufacture, refurbishment, and resale to reduce the production and 
consumption of new products while retaining value from used goods. The facilitation of such 
circular strategies are often new tasks outside of the operations of traditional (linear) business 
models (Brown et al., 2019), and require certain capabilities and knowledge that companies may 
lack, particular those with established business models (Bernon et al., 2018; Reim et al., 2021). 
Business model innovation for circularity operates with uncertainty in a complex and dynamic 
environment (Santa-Maria et al., 2021) and face barriers such as a lack of organizational knowledge 
for circularity, financial, technical, market, and institutional barriers (Bianchini et al., 2019; 
Guldmann and Huulgaard, 2020).  
Companies can address some of the complexities of business model innovation for circularity 
through the development of external collaborative partnerships and networks (Brown et al., 2018; 
Greco et al., 2020; Reim et al., 2021) in order to share resources across organizational boundaries 
(Hansen and Schmitt, 2021). The success of circular business models (CBMs) is perhaps dependent 
on collaboration since circularity requires specific actors, capabilities, resources, and knowledge 
(Brown et al., 2018) that take time to develop (Frishammar and Parida, 2019).  
While it is understood that partnerships can aid in  business model innovation for circularity (Brown 
et al., 2021), the dynamics of partnerships for CBMs need to be explored to identify the parameters 
and success factors that explain how collaboration works between partners (Brown et al., 2018). 
Different aspects of interorganizational relationships need to be examined to understand 
collaboration networks as well as the competences and capabilities that companies need to move 
towards circularity (Hofmann and Jaeger‐Erben, 2020). Brown et al. (2021) suggest that future 
research should focus “within collaborative processes, practices, and dynamics as they happen” (p. 
14), therefore justifying this research that investigates three different cases of collaboration for 
circularity at different scales and implementation processes of innovation. This research explores 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
375 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
collaboration dynamics from the perspective of Godsinlösen AB (GIAB), a gap exploiter business 
model that helps established firms implement circular strategies. The concept of a gap exploiter 
model can be understood as a ‘reuse and redistribution’ business model where it evaluates the 
value of used products, makes small repairs, and provides access by creating a market for them 
(Lüdeke‐Freund et al., 2018).  
This research aims to identify and categorize competences for circularity through exploration of a 
gap exploiter business model and its partners. Furthermore, it aims to understand and utilize 
collaboration mechanisms to help explain how partnerships can address the challenges of 
established companies seeking to implement circular strategies. 
Methods 
This research takes a case study approach and includes the perspective of various actors and 
organizations, as called for by Aarikka-Stenroos and Ritala (2017) to include multiple perspectives 
and interactions in business network studies. Semi-structured interviews, annual reports, press 
releases, and ethnographic observations were collected and analyzed following Gioia et al.’s (2013) 
methodological approach to coding.  
GIAB was selected as the central unit of analysis due to its unique business model spanning several 
industries, and its role in working with various other companies to facilitate circular strategies. Its 
role of collaboration was investigated through the perspectives of three partnerships: a furniture 
company, an insurance company, and a white goods manufacturer. The companies have different 
circular ambitions partnership agreements with GIAB and were selected to obtain different 
perspectives of the innovation process and nature of relations. 
Findings 
GIAB offers a broad range of services around the facilitation of the reuse of products and creates 
value through its business areas and digital platform. GIAB’s value proposition is presented as its 
competences in Figure 1, where a competence framework and collaboration mechanism 
framework are combined to describe how GIAB meets its partners’ needs to implement and 
maintain circular initiatives.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
376 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
FIGURE 1. COMPETENCES AND COLLABORATION MECHANISMS TO MEET PARTNER NEEDS 
GIAB’s competences are categorized under physical systems, managerial systems, skills and 
knowledge, and values within an organization (Janssen et al., 2014): 
Physical Systems: GIAB’s digital platform acts as the main system for communication by providing 
product and component tracking, and sustainability data to partners of products that have been 
reused. GIAB also has two physical warehouses for storage, repair and refurbishment, and resale of 
partner goods. 
Managerial Systems: GIAB’s four business areas provide diverse services and its partnerships are 
managed through different contact types. GIAB maintains various networks of interaction with 
partner and logistic companies, research institutions, industry networks, social, and other 
organizations that work with large-scale reuse. GIAB’s various contractual offerings for its business 
areas provide partners with flexibility in the relationship with concrete outcomes of profit-sharing, 
as well as access to GIAB’s logistic networks.   
Skills and knowledge: GIAB offers diversity and flexibility in its service abilities to clean, repair, and 
refurbish goods that range from durable to consumable goods. While GIAB separates expertise into 
four areas, it shares employee skills and knowledge throughout the organization. Information is 
connected through GIAB’s digital platform that acts as a complement to the business areas as well 
as a foundation in providing product-specific data. GIAB’s skills and knowledge is perhaps the most 
valuable and needed from the partners’ perspective as it provides the foundation for the work 
needed to facilitate their circular initiatives. 
Value: GIAB’s values are integrated throughout its services as they provide economic value to its 
partners and itself, as well as sustainability data for partners to communicate to its consumers and 
stakeholders. GIAB works to build trust and personal connection with partners, for example by 
integrating partner customer service into its organization such as with the insurance company.  
GIAB’s competences are shared through various pathways of collaboration as shown in Figure 1. 
Information sharing is a critical enabler for circular systems and is the primary foundation for 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
377 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
collaboration (Bressanelli et al., 2018; Hussain and Malik, 2020; Gebhardt et al., 2021). GIAB 
provides information sharing in different ways, which is described through the four other 
mechanisms as defined by Gebhardt et al. (2021):  
Joint planning and decision-making: GIAB’s collaborative planning is implicit in its business areas 
since partners can decide along with GIAB the breadth and level of involvement of GIAB’s services, 
i.e. cover the entire return management chain or engage in individual processes. 
Contractual and economic practices: GIAB offers various flexibilities of contractual agreements for 
revenue sharing, as well as the duration of the collaboration. For example, GIAB invoices the 
insurance companies depending on the repair cost for each item with an insurance claim, while it 
offers a 50/50 contract model minus repair costs for e-commerce companies.  
Resource sharing: GIAB shares resources in its physical space of repair and storage, as well as tools 
and such used for cleaning and repair, and general operational processes.  
Joint knowledge creation: In working together with its partners by providing the digital platform to 
track products and processes, GIAB also learns about product flow and market patterns.  
The configuration of GIAB’s competences across the different systems acts as a foundation for the 
capabilities needed to create circular solutions, as shown in Figure 2.  By combining categories of 
GIAB’s competences, this research presents a model for circular capabilities.  The capabilities 
needed for CBMs can be categorized as solution configuration capability, orchestration capability, 
and digitalization capability using conceptual definitions by Reim et al. (2021).   
 
FIGURE 2. COMPETENCE CONFIGURATION FOR CBM CAPABILITIES 
Conclusion 
This research provides perspective beyond the organizational boundaries of individual firms and 
towards connected systems through collaboration for a circular economy. It examines the 
implementation of practical circular initiatives in established business models through a partner 
perspective and draws upon resource-based theory to connect business model innovation for 
circularity with collaboration to fill competency gaps and fulfill the need for circular capabilities. 
This research acknowledges the case-specific attributes of the companies analyzed, but through the 
development and combination of previous frameworks in literature, provides a tangible and 
generalizable understanding of firms’ circularity needs and partnership dynamics.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
378 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Keywords  
Business model innovation for circularity, Collaboration, Gap exploiter business model, Circular 
capabilities, Competences for circularity 
Acknowledgments 
This research was funded in part by Mistra Sustainable Consumption—from niche to mainstream, 
as well as by Mistra REES II (Resource Efficient and Effective Solutions). 
References  
Aarikka-Stenroos, L., Ritala, P., 2017. Network management in the era of ecosystems: Systematic review and 
management 
framework. 
Industrial 
Marketing 
Management 
67, 
23–36. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2017.08.010 
Bernon, M., Tjahjono, B., Ripanti, E.F., 2018. Aligning retail reverse logistics practice with circular economy 
values: 
an 
exploratory 
framework. 
Production 
Planning 
& 
Control 
483–497. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/09537287.2018.1449266 
Bianchini, A., Rossi, J., Pellegrini, M., 2019. Overcoming the main barriers of circular economy implementation 
through 
a 
new 
visualization 
tool 
for 
circular 
business 
models. 
Sustainability 
11. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su11236614 
Bressanelli, G., Adrodegari, F., Perona, M., Saccani, N., 2018. The role of digital technologies to overcome 
Circular Economy challenges in PSS Business Models: an exploratory case study. Procedia CIRP 73, 
216–221. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2018.03.322 
Brown, P., Baldassarre, B., Konietzko, J., Bocken, N., Balkenende, R., 2021. A tool for collaborative circular 
proposition design. J. Clean. Prod. 297. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.126354 
Brown, P., Bocken, N., Balkenende, R., 2019. Why Do Companies Pursue Collaborative Circular Oriented 
Innovation? Sustainability 11, 635. https://doi.org/10.3390/su11030635 
Brown, P., Bocken, N., Balkenende, R., 2018. Towards Understanding Collaboration Within Circular Business 
Models, in: Moratis, L., Melissen, F., Idowu, S.O. (Eds.), Sustainable Business Models: Principles, 
Promise, 
and 
Practice. 
Springer 
International 
Publishing, 
Cham, 
pp. 
169–201. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-73503-0_9 
Frishammar, J., Parida, V., 2019. Circular Business Model Transformation: A Roadmap for Incumbent Firms. 
California Management Review 61, 5–29. https://doi.org/10.1177/0008125618811926 
Gebhardt, M., Kopyto, M., Birkel, H., Hartmann, E., 2021. Industry 4.0 technologies as enablers of 
collaboration in circular supply chains: a systematic literature review. null 1–29. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2021.1999521 
Gioia, D.A., Corley, K.G., Hamilton, A.L., 2013. Seeking Qualitative Rigor in Inductive Research: Notes on the 
Gioia 
Methodology. 
Organizational 
Research 
Methods 
16, 
15–31. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1094428112452151 
Greco, M., Grimaldi, M., Cricelli, L., 2020. Interorganizational collaboration strategies and innovation 
abandonment: The more the merrier? Industrial Marketing Management 90, 679–692. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2020.03.029 
Guldmann, E., Huulgaard, R.D., 2020. Barriers to circular business model innovation: A multiple-case study. 
Journal of Cleaner Production 243, 118160. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.118160 
Hansen, E.G., Schmitt, J.C., 2021. Orchestrating cradle‐to‐cradle innovation across the value chain: 
Overcoming barriers through innovation communities, collaboration mechanisms, and 
intermediation. Journal of Industrial Ecology 25, 627–647. https://doi.org/10.1111/jiec.13081 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
379 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Hofmann, F., Jaeger‐Erben, M., 2020. Organizational transition management of circular business model 
innovations. Bus Strat Env 29, 2770–2788. https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2542 
Hussain, M., Malik, M., 2020. Organizational enablers for circular economy in the context of sustainable 
supply 
chain 
management. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production 
256, 
120375. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.120375 
Janssen, W., Bouwman, H., van Buuren, R., Haaker, T., 2014. An organizational competence model for 
innovation 
intermediaries. 
European 
Journal 
of 
Innovation 
Management 
17, 
2–24. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/EJIM-09-2012-0087 
Lüdeke‐Freund, F., Gold, S., Bocken, N.M.P., 2018. A Review and Typology of Circular Economy Business 
Model Patterns. Journal of Industrial Ecology 23, 36–61. https://doi.org/10.1111/jiec.12763 
Reim, W., Sjödin, D., Parida, V., 2021. Circular business model implementation: A capability development case 
study 
from 
the 
manufacturing 
industry. 
Bus 
Strat 
Env 
30, 
2745–2757. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2891 
Santa-Maria, T., Vermeulen, W.J.V., Baumgartner, R.J., 2021. Framing and assessing the emergent field of 
business model innovation for the circular economy: A combined literature review and multiple case 
study approach. Sustain. Prod. Consum. 26, 872–891. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2020.12.037 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
380 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
From countries to corporations: an 
analysis at different levels to achieve 
sustainability in circular economy 
 
Marco Menoni* 
Independent researcher 
*Marcomenix@yahoo.it  
Extended abstract 
The sustainable business model could improve the risk mitigation and firm resilience, improve 
diversification and “value co-creation opportunities” (Geissdoerfer et al, 2018, p.402). A business 
model is a conceptual framework with three “major components” “the value proposition, the value 
creation and delivery system, and value capture” (Richardson, 2008. p.138). Sustainable business 
model have to consider values beyond economic aspects to take into account a broad range of 
stakeholders (Bocken et al 2013). Circular business models have additional characteristics respects 
to sustainable business models in fact they “are not only creating sustainable value, employing pro-
active multi-stakeholder management, and have a long-term perspective, but also close, slow, 
intensify, dematerialise, and narrow resource loops” (Geissdoerfer et al, 2018, p.403). As 
Geissdoerfer et al, (2018) point out these additional characteristics could not be in the sustainable 
range. An activity based system is considered a good theoretical foundation to analyze the 
sustainable business models (Hernández-Chea et al 2021). Activity that often are associated with 
cost savings are the increase of material efficiency, the creation of value from waste, the use of 
renewable energies (Hernández-Chea et al 2021). 
An aspect that again need more investigation regards the differencies and similarities among the 
circular business models and the different industries (Ferasso et al 2020). This could help to better 
understand the relationships between circularity strategies and different industry sectors. Other 
aspect that deserve attention is the relationship between circular economy and sustainability 
performances (Ferasso et al 2020).  
Through index decomposition analysis is possible to analyze the context at industry level and its link 
with corporate level (Lonca et al 2019). The flexibility of this methodology can be useful to consider 
the role played by some aspects such as information technology or resilience. It is interesting to 
evaluate the weight of industry in fostering circular business models. A quantitative comparison 
among industrial sectors, inside each industry and in relation to single corporation can provide a 
better insight about the correct pathway in sustainability direction. Following real option theory 
(Trigeorgis & Reuer, 2017) are taken into account the substitutability or complementary effects of 
different options, competition versus cooperation.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
381 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The collaboration and partnerships in business are enablers of circular economy business model 
however it is interesting to investigate how regional factor such as geography and demography can 
affect them (Hina et al 2022). 
The methodology adopted can investigate on such factors by decomposition analysis. The study at 
industry sector level can facilitate the overview to evidence the complementarities and possible 
criticalities to the circular economy process. 
To understand the contribution that circular economy can give to sustainability have to be 
considered the possibility of rebound effect due to increase in production. Following Lonca et al 
(2019) pollution emissions can be decomposed in material recirculation, product material efficiency 
and circular business model to calculate the contribution of these aspects on the overall result. 
Conducting the analysis in different countries it is possible to take in consideration the geographic 
and demographics variables. In a longitudinal perspective is evaluated the evolution of the variables 
and their possible effect on the circular business model. 
The empirical examination about the role of institutional pressure in the link between digitalisation 
and circular economy (Chauhan et al, 2022) can help to know how corporations can achieve 
economic and environmental benefit with digitalisation. 
The role of information technology can enhance the value creation, value delivery and value 
capture. Information technology can increase efficiency and improve performance (Ibarraa et al, 
2018). The analysis at industry sector level underline the usefulness of partnerships among 
corporations in different industries. To foster the sustainability of circular economy it is necessary 
a shift in business model that can capture the value created and delivered with environmental 
sustainable products and services. So it could be possible compensate the eventual rebound effect 
due to an increase in efficiency with an improvement in product quality services. Cooperation 
framework among different corporations can improve the value context of circular business model. 
In this case the value capture is more related with new revenues streams rather than with cost 
saving dynamics. Institutional pressure have an important role in enhancing information 
technologies that are useful for circular economy. 
Keywords 
Circular economy, sustainability, business model               
References 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D., & Evans, S. (2018). Sustainable business model innovation: A review. 
Journal of cleaner production, 198, 401-416.  
Richardson, J. (2008). The business model: an integrative framework for strategy execution. Strategic Change, 
17(5‐6), 133-144.  
Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2013). A value mapping tool for sustainable business modelling. 
Corporate Governance: International Journal of Business in Society, 13(5), 482-497.  
Hernández-Chea, R., Jain, A., Bocken, N. M., & Gurtoo, A. (2021). The Business Model in Sustainability 
Transitions: 
A 
Conceptualization. 
Sustainability, 
13(11), 
5763. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su13115763  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
382 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Ferasso, M., Beliaeva, T., Kraus, S., Clauss, T., & Ribeiro‐Soriano, D. (2020). Circular economy business models: 
The state of research and avenues ahead. Business Strategy and the Environment, 29(8), 3006-3024.  
Lonca, G., Bernard, S., & Margni, M. (2019). A versatile approach to assess circularity: The case of decoupling. 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 240, 118174.  
Trigeorgis, L., & Reuer, J. J. (2017). Real options theory in strategic management. Strategic management 
journal, 38(1), 42-63.  
Hina, M., Chauhan, C., Kaur, P., Kraus, S., & Dhir, A. (2022). Drivers and barriers of circular economy business 
models: Where we are now, and where we are heading. Journal of Cleaner Production, 333, 130049.  
Chauhan, C., Parida, V., & Dhir, A. (2022). Linking circular economy and digitalisation technologies: A 
systematic literature review of past achievements and future promises. Technological Forecasting 
and Social Change, 177, 121508.  
Ibarraa, D., Ganzaraina, J., & Igartuaa, J. I. (2018). Business model innovation through Industry 4.0: A review. 
Procedia Manufacturing, 22, 4-10.  
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
383 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Developing a Sustainable Business 
Model to make the Textile Industry 
Circular through Wastewater 
Treatment 
K. Panteleaki Tourkodimitri1*, R. Partal2, S.M. Hocaoglu2, M. 
Mortou1, I. Basturk2, D. Sapoutzi1, A. Baban2, D. Xevgenos1,3,  
1SEALEAU BV, The Netherlands; 2The Scientific and Technological 
Research Council of Turkey (TÜBİTAK) Marmara Research Center, 
Turkey; 3Applied Sciences Faculty, TU Delft, The Netherlands  
*k.panteleaki@sealeau.com 
Extended abstract 
Introduction 
Water crisis is one of the most important global risks influencing humanity, putting increasing 
pressure on our global resources and the climate. Sustainable Development Goals stress the 
importance of increasing water-use efficiency across all sectors. Industry constitutes a significant 
water polluter since a large amount of its wastewater does not receive treatment prior to its 
disposal in the environment. In particular, textile industries are one of the largest generators of 
wastewater as a large amount of water is used in dyeing, rinsing, conditioning and finishing 
processes (Singh et al., 2019). One of the greatest sources of wastewater is brine effluent, a 
hypersaline concentrate created during the water treatment in the industries (Jones et al., 2019). 
Brine concentrate is linked with numerous negative environmental impacts such as the pollution of 
groundwater or the alteration of water’s properties (Ariono, Purwasasmita & Wenten, 2016; 
Panagopoulos, Haralambous & Loizidou, 2019). 
In an effort to tackle the challenges that brine discharges impose, both in terms of management 
and costs, the textile industry should shift to solutions that promote sustainability as has been 
highlighted by researchers, practitioners and policy agents (Desore & Narula, 2018; Lee, 2017; 
Luján-Ornelas et al., 2020; Roy, Sen & Pal, 2020). The Circular Economy (CE) is a promising approach 
to transform the current linear model of production and consumption that place a substantial 
burden on earth and its environmental ability (Walmsley et al., 2019).  
Generally, the textile industry has a very linear business model that is highly competitive (EEA, 2019; 
Ly, 2021). However, the implementation of Circular Business models could shift the non-sustainable 
‘take-make-waste-paradigm’ to sustainable business model innovation that concentrates on 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
384 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
creating value for a broader range of stakeholders and takes into consideration the benefits from 
societal and environmental perspectives (Bocken, 2015). 
Purpose of Research 
The aim of this study is to explore and develop a Circular Business Model for the treatment of brine 
wastewater generated by the textile sector. In this way, this report can showcase the benefits of 
applying circular economy techniques not only in terms of environmental value but also economic 
and social.  
This work revolved around the ZERO BRINE (zerobrine.eu) project which aims at facilitating the 
implementation of the Circular Economy Package and the SPIRE Roadmap in various process 
industries by developing the necessary concepts, technological solutions and business models to 
redesign the value and supply chains of minerals. The project involves four large scale 
demonstrations in the Netherlands, Spain, Turkey and Poland, while this work presents findings 
related to the demonstration in Turkey that relates to textile wastewater treatment. The concept 
of circular economy and Zero Liquid Discharge options were investigated for a textile industry. In 
this manner, treatment and recovery of the concentrated salt solution (brine) which can be reused 
in the dyeing baths of the textile plant and/or utilized as feed for salt production was achieved. 
Methods 
This study was designed as an exploratory case study research (Yin, 2009) by focusing on one textile 
case in Turkey. Case study research is recommended as a research methodology when the research 
problem is complex and needs to be understood within its context (Eisenhardt & Graebner, 2007). 
This study applied also action research, as the researchers involved were engaged in a process to 
co-design with the problem-owners (“Zorluteks” textile industry) and the technology providers 
(“The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey”(TÜBİTAK), Marmara Research 
Center) that enabled the collection of rich information both from the technical demonstration of 
the proposed innovative technical solutions. A first recording of the textile enterprises’’ distribution 
and concentration in Turkey is provided in Figure 1.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
385 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
FIGURE 1: TEXTILE ENTERPRISES GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION AND CONCENTRATION IN TURKEY 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
386 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
FIGURE 2: CONCEPTUAL OVERVIEW OF THE TEXTILE WASTEWATER TREATMENT 
 
Preliminary Results and Discussion 
The value proposition to the textile sector could be formulated as follows: “Increasing resource 
recovery yields through advanced wastewater treatment methods in the textile sector”. As already 
highlighted by many researchers, sustainable business model literature takes into consideration, 
not only the economic but also ecological and social value arising from the exchange process with 
the stakeholders (Bocken, 2015; Masud et al., 2019; Joyce & Paquin, 2016; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 
2020). Therefore, the sustainable business model in this report follows the triple bottom line as 
three key elements are included in this value proposition; profit, people and planet.  
Profit 
By applying the ZERO BRINE processes, the company could capture a new Circular Economy value 
of up to 0.43 €/m3 of brine treated (see Figure 3). However, the costs of implementing the ZERO 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
387 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
BRINE system are higher than the revenues. One reason behind that could be the low water prices, 
depending on the region, and low salt costs in Turkey. With the increasing water scarcity, positive 
achievements could be seen with the increase in the value of water.  
 
 
FIGURE 3: COSTS AND REVENUES PER M3 OF WASTEWATER TREATED FOR THE TEXTILE CASE STUDY (FULL-SCALE 
IMPLEMENTATION) 
The main driver for the textile companies to apply these circular economy techniques is the 
improvement in the visibility of the enterprise due to increased concerns for environmental issues, 
and also the relevant growth in export potential with good market value. Textile industries have 
expressed interest in full-scale implementation of the proposed system.  
Planet 
The textile industry is responsible for various environmental impacts, mainly due to wastewater 
discharges that contain various chemicals, dyes, salts and other auxiliary materials from unit 
processes. Furthermore, the textile industry is a highly water-intensive sector. Water consumption 
ranges between 60 to 120 L/kg for cotton products and 110-650 L/kg for wool. Extensive water use 
is required for processes such as dyeing, rinsing, conditioning and finishing operations (see Figure 
2) (European Commission, 2019). Another important issue is salt usage in the textile industry. Salt 
is consumed for dyeing cotton or linen fabrics and acts as a raw and auxiliary material. For this 
reason, the wastewater generated as a result of the processes carried out contains high levels of 
salt and these flows can be described as brine. Brine can cause significant environmental problems 
if discharged to the receiving bodies due to its high concentrations of pollutants such as salt, organic 
matter and toxic chemicals. In this line, it has been stated that the ZERO BRINE system allows a NaCl 
recovery rate of 66% for dyeing processes and clean water recovery up to 77%. Furthermore, the 
organic load to be discharged might be reduced by 90% (Partal et al., 2022). 
The LCA studies of textile brine treatment system have been studied within the ZERO BRINE project. 
The findings indicated that the best comparative performance of the ZB system is observed for 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
388 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
resource depletion due to the recovery of salt and water. On the other hand, when compared to a 
reference system, electricity consumption was found the major contributor to the impacts. On 
contrary, sodium chloride recovery provided most of the benefit in terms of greenhouse gas 
emissions (Harris et al., 2021).  
People 
Furthermore, the creation of new job alternatives for technical personnel in both textile and other 
relevant enterprises for various sectors including environmental fields (wastewater treatment and 
reuse companies) is of crucial importance. Finally, yet importantly, the saline wastewater streams 
generated by the industry are reduced, decreasing the environmental impact of brine, and minerals 
and water are recovered. Furthermore, in the basins where wastewater is discharged, sustainable 
agricultural activities can be ensured by preventing problems such as salinization. Thus, the 
salinization problem that the people of the region will encounter in agricultural activities can be 
prevented. 
Subsequently, we define the creation of value that is structured around three key elements; the 
key stakeholders, the key activities and the key resources & capabilities. For the textile case study, 
the key stakeholders are: 
Technology and knowledge suppliers: In this case, all the technologies applied were provided by 
The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey (TÜBİTAK), Marmara Research Center. 
Textile industries: The textile companies in Turkey are more than 52,000 and 160,000 in Europe. 
More particularly, in Turkey, there are approximately 3000 textile finishing enterprises that are 
active and most of them use salts in the dyeing process. Therefore, dyeing process effluent can also 
be characterized as a brine stream and ZERO BRINE technology can be used at the source of the 
stream by a cleaner production approach. 
Water Users: The consumers of the water recovered 
Chamber of Industries: Constitute important stakeholders to disseminate and inform their 
members about the project results. 
Organized Industrial Zones operating relevant to textile: It closely follows the water and material 
recovery practices that are in line with the Green Deal.  
Associations: Turkish Textile  Associations are important actors in the textile sector in Turkey and 
among these, some of them also have connections with the European Apparel and Textile 
Confederation (EURATEX). 
European Commission: Even though Turkey is not immediately affected by the EU policies, it follows 
the updates such as the EU Green Deal. Furthermore, EC is an important stakeholder in the 
application of the ZERO BRINE project in EU textile companies. 
The key activities are the brine treatment and the water and salt solution recovery that are going 
to be used internally in the industry. However, there is also the possibility of external valorization. 
The key resources and capabilities of the applied technologies (in this case Ozone Oxidation, 
Nanofiltration, Reverse Osmosis and Ion Exchange) and the knowledge around the system. After 
the creation of value, it is important to deliver the value to the customers and to identify the right 
channels to do it. The targeted customer segments are textile industries that may be willing to 
purchase the system and the industrial water market for the recovered water. It is aimed to have 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
389 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
close relationships with the customers of the system, meaning to form Communities of Practice to 
co-create, improve and tailor the solution to the needs of each customer. Furthermore, personal 
assistance will be provided to each customer to support the operation and maintenance of the 
system. Last, the main channels to reach the ZERO BRINE project are through personal 
communication with the interested parties and the relevant textile associations, they could act as 
a channel to disseminate and inform its members about the project results. 
Lastly, concerning the value capture, this report applies the Life Cycle Costing (LCC) technique by 
taking into consideration two components in line with (Swarr et al., 2011): 
Costs linked to its development or use, (e.g. CAPEX, OPEX etc.) 
Costs imputed to environmental externalities linked to the product, service or works during its life 
cycle (e.g. cost of emissions of greenhouse gases and other climate change mitigation costs).  
For the conventional LCC, two elements were taken into consideration; the cost structure and the 
revenues streams. For the financial analysis, we calculated the total Capital Expenditure (CAPEX) 
and the total Operating Expenditure (OPEX) (see Table 1). The CAPEX include the costs for Ozone 
Oxidation, Nanofiltration, Reverse Osmosis, Ion Exchange and Cleaning-in-place units. For the 
OPEX, maintenance and electricity and chemicals consumption were considered. Regarding the 
revenues, the savings for the recovered water and the salt solution were calculated. It was assumed 
a feed stream of 20 m3/h with 5.2 g/L of Total Dissolved Solids (TDS). The preliminary results are 
presented in Table 1.  
TABLE 1: CAPEX, OPEX & SAVINGS FOR THE ZERO BRINE APPLICATION 
 
CAPEX (€) 
OPEX (€/year) 
Ozone Oxidation 
159,371 
45,796 
Nanofiltration 1 
113,209 
35,507 
Nanofiltration 2 
68,209 
12,915 
Reverse Osmosis 
108,209 
41,756 
Ion Exchange 
28,035 
15,114 
CIP 
7,215 
4,989 
Total 
484,249 
156,078 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
390 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Acknowledgement 
This project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation 
programme under Grant Agreement no. 730390 (ZERO BRINE – Industrial Desalination – Resource 
Recovery – Circular Economy). www.zerobrine.eu. 
Keywords  
Textile Wastewater, Sustainable Business Modelling, Circular Economy, Wastewater Treatment 
References  
Ariono, D., Purwasasmita, M. & Wenten, I.G. (2016) Brine Effluents: Characteristics, Environmental Impacts, 
and Their Handling. Journal of Engineering and Technological Sciences. 48 (4), 367–387. 
doi:10.5614/j.eng.technol.sci.2016.48.4.1. 
Bocken, N. (2015) Title: Conceptual framework for shared value creation based on value mapping Authors & 
affiliations. 
Desore, A. & Narula, S.A. (2018) An overview on corporate response towards sustainability issues in textile 
industry. Environment, Development and Sustainability. 20 (4), 1439–1459. doi:10.1007/s10668-
017-9949-1. 
EEA (2019) Textiles in Europe’s circular economy. 19 November 2019. European Environment Agency. 
https://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/textiles-in-europes-circular-economy/textiles-in-europe-
s-circular-economy [Accessed: 22 June 2021]. 
Eisenhardt, K.M. & Graebner, M.E. (2007) Theory Building From Cases: Opportunities And Challenges. 
Academy of Management Journal. 50 (1), 25–32. doi:10.5465/amj.2007.24160888. 
European Commission (2019) Best Available Techniques (BAT) Reference Document for the Textiles Industry,. 
Harris, S., Tsalidis, G., Corbera, J.B., Espi Gallart, J.J. & Tegstedt, F. (2021) Application of LCA and LCC in the 
early stages of wastewater treatment design: A multiple case study of brine effluents. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 307, 127298. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.127298. 
Hunkeler, D., Lichtenvort, K. & Rebitzer, G. (2018) , D., , K., & Rebitzer, G. (2008). Environmental life cycle 
costing. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
391 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Jones, E., Qadir, M., van Vliet, M.T.H., Smakhtin, V. & Kang, S.-M. (2019) The state of desalination and brine 
production: A global outlook. The Science of the Total Environment. 657, 1343–1356. 
doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.12.076. 
Joyce, A. & Paquin, R. (2016) The triple layered business model canvas: A tool to design more sustainable 
business models. Journal of Cleaner Production. 135. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.06.067. 
Lee, K.E. (2017) Environmental Sustainability in the Textile Industry. In: S.S. Muthu (ed.). Sustainability in the 
Textile Industry. Textile Science and Clothing Technology. Singapore, Springer. pp. 17–55. 
doi:10.1007/978-981-10-2639-3_3. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Rauter, R., Pedersen, E. & Nielsen, C. (2020) Sustainable Value Creation Through Business 
Models: The What, the Who and the How. 8, 62–90. 
Luján-Ornelas, C., Güereca, L.P., Franco-García, M.-L. & Heldeweg, M. (2020) A Life Cycle Thinking Approach 
to Analyse Sustainability in the Textile Industry: A Literature Review. Sustainability. 12 (23), 10193. 
doi:10.3390/su122310193. 
Ly, B. (2021) Competitive advantage and internationalization of a circular economy model in apparel 
multinationals A.W.K. Tan (ed.). Cogent Business & Management. 8 (1), 1944012. 
doi:10.1080/23311975.2021.1944012. 
Masud, Md.A.K., Rashid, Md.H.U., Khan, T., Bae, S.M. & Kim, J.D. (2019) Organizational Strategy and 
Corporate Social Responsibility: The Mediating Effect of Triple Bottom Line. International Journal of 
Environmental Research and Public Health. 16 (22), 4559. doi:10.3390/ijerph16224559. 
Panagopoulos, A., Haralambous, K.-J. & Loizidou, M. (2019) Desalination brine disposal methods and 
treatment technologies - A review. The Science of the Total Environment. 693, 133545. 
doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.07.351. 
Partal, R., Basturk, I., Murat Hocaoglu, S., Baban, A. & Yilmaz, E. (2022) Recovery of water and reusable salt 
solution from reverse osmosis brine in textile industry: A case study. Water Resources and Industry. 
27, 100174. doi:10.1016/j.wri.2022.100174. 
Roy, M., Sen, P. & Pal, P. (2020) An integrated green management model to improve environmental 
performance of textile industry towards sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. 271, 122656. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.122656. 
Singh, R.P., Singh, P.K., Gupta, R. & Singh, R.L. (2019) Treatment and Recycling of Wastewater from Textile 
Industry. In: R.L. Singh & R.P. Singh (eds.). Advances in Biological Treatment of Industrial Waste 
Water and their Recycling for a Sustainable Future. Applied Environmental Science and Engineering 
for a Sustainable Future. Singapore, Springer. pp. 225–266. doi:10.1007/978-981-13-1468-1_8. 
Swarr, T., Hunkeler, D., Klöpffer, W., Pesonen, H.-L., Ciroth, A., Brent, A. & Pagan, R. (2011) Environmental 
Life-Cycle Costing: A Code of Practice. The International Journal of Life Cycle Assessment. 16, 389–
391. doi:10.1007/s11367-011-0287-5. 
Walmsley, T.G., Ong, B.H.Y., Klemeš, J.J., Tan, R.R. & Varbanov, P.S. (2019) Circular Integration of processes, 
industries, and economies. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews. 107 (C), 507–515. 
Yin, R.K. (2009) Case study research: Design and methods. The Canadian Journal of Action Research. 14 (1), 
69–71. doi:10.33524/cjar.v14i1.73. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
392 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The chance for a circular business 
ecosystem in the wastewater 
treatment industry in southern 
Portugal 
 
 
Emilio Nogueira Moure1, Ángeles Pereira Sánchez1, Juan Alberto 
Turnes Abelenda1, Xabier Vence Deza1.  
1ICEDE Research Group. University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain  
Extended abstract 
In the field of management, business models are defined as “the rationale of how an organization 
creates, delivers, and captures economic, social, and other forms of value” (Osterwalder et al., 
2005; Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010). Foss & Saebi (2018), emphasize the business model 
architecture, as a mapping of the functional relations among the firm's value creation, delivery and 
appropriation mechanisms and the underlying activities.   
A circular business model needs to add the principles of the Circular Economy to the offering. 
Therefore, forms of value aligned to circularity and sustainability must be at the core of the value 
proposition. The benefits of circular economy solutions may seem very small, when considered only 
from the point of view of a single company, or even an industry, in charge of their implementation. 
A single company/industry perspective can, in many cases, inhibit the adoption of innovations with 
undoubted economic and environmental benefits. 
While the business model perspective typically focuses on how a company does business (Konietzko 
et al., 2020), defining the entire business model around a focal organisation, there are other 
perspectives that broaden the focus, taking into consideration the contributions of all agents 
involved in the value proposition. 
In a business ecosystem, different companies and agents collaborate to develop new value 
propositions in such a way that none of the participating organisations could generate that value 
proposition independently. They compete and cooperate at the same time, evolving together, to 
support new products and meet customer needs (Moore, 1993). The Business Ecosystem approach 
opens new perspectives from which to understand changes in the management of innovation, 
structural adaptations of organizations and the evolution of the nature of inter-firm interactions 
(Parisot et. al., 2013).  
Circular economy solutions often require traditional linkages among key partners, and other 
stakeholders, to be strengthen. Following, Konietzko et al. (2020), we argue that a business model 
perspective is too narrow to achieve higher levels of circularity. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
393 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The aim of this paper is to show the relevance of linkages among different agents and how they are 
built into a new cooperative and innovative process. We show how different organizations may 
cooperate to implement a new circular economy solution in the field of water mining. The paper is 
focused on a case study which is being developed within the H2020 project Water Mining. The case 
shows how the application of the Nereda® technology to the wastewater treatment process in 
southern Portugal supports the transformation of wastewater sludge into a new valuable product, 
which is called kaumera. Kaumera is a novel bio-based resource obtained from the granular 
anaerobic sludge resulting from the wastewater treatment process, with, potentially, multiple 
market applications.  
We adopt the business ecosystem approach to better reflect how wastewater plant operators, 
technology providers, public institutions, and other relevant stakeholders, may engage into new 
stronger relationships that allow for the deployment of circularity innovations. As a result, the 
outcome of the wastewater treatment process is improved from an environmental perspective, 
while increasing economic returns.  
The research is based on a qualitative methodology. The analysis follows a step-by-step process, 
which combines desk research and semi-structured interviews. The first step consisted in the 
analysis of the business model, based on the discussion of the main business model components, 
e.g., value proposition, value creation and delivery, and value capture. The second step consisted 
in identifying and analysing the relevant partners in the business ecosystem. This was conducted 
through semi-structured interviews with the identified partners. Finally, the circularity of the value 
created within / by the business ecosystem was based on a multicriteria approach. 
Business ecosystems help to describe how increased value outcomes may be distributed not only 
among wastewater treatment partners, but also with customers, public institutions, and society at 
large, who benefit from the environmental improvements of the wastewater treatment process. 
Circularity is gained through the reduction of the amount of sludge that needs to be managed, the 
recovery of valuable materials, the reduction of energy consumption, and the enhanced efficiency 
of wastewater treatment facilities. Business ecosystems also allow for the consideration of non-
market values, usually ignored in traditional business models, that represent an important share of 
the benefits society may gain from circular economy solutions. 
Findings may be relevant to stimulate the participation of potential members in circular business 
ecosystems, particularly in those fields where the benefits are widely distributed among companies 
and society in general. Our results can also help policymakers to better understand the total 
benefits derived from circular economy innovations and thus facilitate their implementation and 
the achievement of circularity objectives. 
Keywords  
Circular business ecosystems, circular economy, business models, water mining, wastewater 
treatment. 
Acknowledgements: 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
394 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
“This project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and 
innovation programme under grant agreement No 869474” 
References: 
Foss, N. J., & Saebi, T. (2018). Business models and business model innovation: between wicked and 
paradigmatic 
problems. 
Long 
Range 
Planning, 
51(1), 
9–21. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/J.LRP.2017.07.006 
Linder, M., & Williander, M. (2017). Circular Business Model Innovation: Inherent Uncertainties. Business 
Strategy and the Environment, 26(2), 182–196. https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.1906 
Moore, J.F. (1993). Predators and Prey: A New Ecology of Competition, Harvard Business Review, Vol. 71, nº 
3, p.75 - 86. 
Osterwalder, A., & Pigneur, Y. (2010). Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game changers, 
and challengers. John Wiley & Sons.  
Osterwalder, A., Pigneur, Y., & Tucci, C. L. (2005). Clarifying business models: Origins, present, and future of 
the 
concept. 
Communications 
of 
the 
Association 
for 
Information 
Systems, 
16(1). 
http://aisel.aisnet.org/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3016&context=cais  
Parisot, X. & Isckia, T. (2013). A critical Theorization of Business Ecosystems. In: De Boeck Superieur (Eds). 
Understanding Business Ecosystems: How Firms Succeed in the New World of Convergence?. 
Méthodes & Recherches, ISSN 1781-4944. 1th edition, Chapter: 2, (pp.21 - 38) 
Konietzko, J., Bocken, N., Hultink, E.J. (2020). Circular Ecosystem Inovation: A initial set of principles. Journal 
of Cleaner Production 253. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.119942 
Konietzko, J., Bocken, N., Hultink, E.J. (2020). A tool to analyze, ideate and develop circular innovation 
ecosystems. Sustainability, 12(1), 417; https://doi.org/10.3390/su12010417 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
395 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Elements of circularity in business 
models 
How companies integrate circular economy principles 
into their business models to enable circularity 
transitions 
Julia Planko1,*,+, Sanne Raggers1, Maryse Chappin2,  
1University of Applied Sciences Leiden; 2Utrecht University  
*planko.j@hsleiden.nl  
Abstract 
The transition from a linear economy to a circular economy requires new ways of organizing 
business. Businesses models help to achieve systemic transitions. In this study, we explore how 
companies aiming to contribute to a circularity transition incorporate circular economy principles 
into their business models. We conducted a single case study of the Dutch building sector. We 
found that what is often called a circular economy business model, is not necessarily a fully 
circular business model – but a ‘regular’ business model that contains a combination of different 
‘elements of circularity’. These elements of circularity are: Product composition, use of product, 
revenue model/ownership, ‘circular’ production processes, end-of life treatment, and enabling 
services. Few businesses implement truly circular business models. Rather, companies add one or 
several ‘elements of circularity’ to  their business model. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
396 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Closing the loop: A transaction cost 
perspective on product-oriented PSS  
 
Lena Ries1,* 
1Affiliation: Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg  
*lena.ries@fau.de 
Abstract 
Academia discusses Product-Service Systems (PSS) as a business model to operationalize the 
circular economy. While use-oriented and result-oriented PSS are deemed to contribute most 
significantly to sustainability, in practice the most implemented type is product-oriented PSS. 
Hence, the question arises of how to leverage this potential for sustainability. One business model 
element of product-oriented PSS contributing to a circular economy is take-back: Products are 
collected to recover the product or material value. To do so, the consumer is decisive because in 
product-oriented PSS, the ownership of the product is transferred to the consumer. There is 
generally no formal contract or agreement for the consumer to return the product. Hence, for the 
consumer to take action, benefits must outweigh the costs. This paper adopts a transaction cost 
perspective on take-back to analyze consumers’ costs for product return. The qualitative approach 
to answer the research question includes 14 interviews with experts from companies, start-ups, 
and organizations that run a take-back scheme and two consumer workshops. Based on the 
findings, I advance the current framework on transaction costs for product return. In doing so, this 
paper contributes to the theorization of transactions within a circular economy, especially product-
oriented PSS, while also uncovering design elements for practitioners to create or improve take-
back Schemes. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
397 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 2.1 - Data-driven Business Models for 
Sustainability and Digital Transformation in 
Emerging Fields 
Track chairs:  Maya Hoveskog, Magnus Holmén 
(Halmstad University) and Lauri Paavola, (Aalto 
University) 
 
This track aims to explore how data-driven business models contribute to digital 
transformation and shape the overall ecosystem value propositions for sustainability. It 
intends to empirically analyze and conceptualize the emergence of the overall ecosystem 
value propositions for sustainability as well as the structure of such areas.  
The track is focusing on, but not limited to, the interplay between products and service vs. 
data-driven business models for sustainability and ecosystem; data acquisition strategy and 
new business models; the role of digital platforms for sustainable business model 
innovation; methods for developing sustainable, data-driven business models and 
ecosystems.  
Finally, the track is looking for cases of application of emerging technologies such as, for 
example, machine learning, artificial intelligence to business models for sustainability and 
ecosystem. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
398 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Business Model for Sustainability to 
Tackle an Energy Transition Initiative: 
Motivations and Antecedents 
 
The case of a global manufacturing company 
Federico Perillo1,*,, Caroline Gauthier1  
1Grenoble École de Management, France;  
*federico.perillo@grenoble-em.com  
Abstract 
Energy transition is one of the most significant transformation that companies will face over the 
next decades. It addresses the UN Sustainable Goal #13 on Climate action as it aims to achieve 
decarbonization targets. Whereas literature dresses a list of motivations and antecedents for a 
company to address this, the impact of such transformation on the company’s business models 
remains underexplored and the business case remains to demonstrate. 
Building on literature on business models, business model innovation and business models for 
sustainability, this paper first dresses the theoretical list of antecedents and motivations that lead 
companies’ managers to define and implement an energy transition strategy. Adopting an in-depth 
investigation approach, it then checks this list on a real case. The case of a global manufacturing 
company that recently announced an investment plan toward energy transition to accelerate global 
decarbonization, is in-depth investigated. It reveals the emergence of new antecedents such as (1) 
digitalization, (2) advancement of specific technologies, (3) the company’s own culture. 
Beyond contributing to understand the strategic motivations and antecedents of a traditional 
company to accelerate changes in the business model toward sustainability, this paper contributes 
to the literature on Business Models for Sustainability. 
Keywords  
Business Model, Business Model for Sustainability, Digitalization, Energy Transition, Sustainable 
Technology.  
Introduction  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
399 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Business Model (BM) and Business Model Innovation (BMI) have recently drawn the attention of 
several research communities, including business, strategy, technology management, and 
sustainability (Foss & Saebi, 2018).  
Throughout the last decades, BM has gained popularity from both academics and practitioners 
(Zott, Amit & Massa, 2011). Literature on BM has expanded dramatically during the previous two 
decades (Foss & Saebi 2017). As Zott, Amit and Massa (2011) argued, the role of scholars, regarding 
BM, is to develop and highlight the key distinctive factors to conceptualize the phenomenon from 
other relevant concepts by rigorous theoretical “building blocks” that can describe the mechanism 
of the theory from antecedents and consequences. Specifically, how to increase the level of 
theoretical readiness around business model in relationship to sustainability framework it rises 
from critical assessment of BM theories. Most recently, a call by Snihur and Bocken (2022) in their 
essay “A call for action: The impact of business model innovation on business ecosystems, society 
and planet”, empathize the need of investigation on sustainable business model innovation, in 
order to better grasp factors that can create a long-term value for companies aiming at adding 
social and environmental scopes to the economic scope of their BM.  
Massa, Tucci and Afuah (2017) while describing possible future directions for BM, empathize the 
need of formal modelling BM for sustainability (BMfS) considering a set of dynamics (e.g. key 
factors). In 2016, Schaltegger, Hansen and Lüdeke-Freund (2016) argue that the nature of the BMfS 
can also appear from organizations there are observed as capable to create new value by 
maintaining a “green” orientation. In this case, authors also call for modelling of such BM either for 
individuals or organizations, by adding theoretical constructs to the system dynamics.  
New emerging theories regarding BMfS will emerge from well-established business model and 
business model innovation theories as a sub-field or as a stand-alone theory (Lüdeke-Freund & 
Dembek, 2017). Therefore, academics have started to investigate the link between BMfS with 
current available theories (Schaltegger, Hansen & Lüdeke-Freund, 2016). As argued by Schaltegger, 
Hansen and Lüdeke-Freund (2016) the BMfS exists also to share value across multiple stakeholders 
that they might be different from the traditional assumption of BM (Massa, Tucci & Afuah, 2017).  
Most recently, Pereira, Niesten and Pinkse (2022) pointed out that how companies pursue strategic 
goals and the management motivations to engage with BMfS in the area of sustainable energy 
generation are still not fully explored. 
In order to debate about the antecedents and motivations for companies moving their business 
model to BMfS, this research first reviews theoretical foundations then investigates a case study. A 
global company operating in power management and energy transition is chosen. This company is 
currently implementing its energy transition strategy. Such an investigation will show evidence of 
challenges to traditional BM (Massa, Tucci & Afuah, 2017) while moving forward sustainable 
initiatives. Senior managers of a global company addressing the UN Sustainable Goal #13 with 
defining and implementing an energy transition strategy are interviewed and analyzed to reveal 
motivations and antecedents of such a strategy.  
By doing so, we expect to contribute to the literature around alternative forms of BM and BMI that 
in this specific case focuses on sustainable energy initiative including BMfS. Hence, the paper aims 
to explore the drivers and antecedents in the domain of business model for sustainability within an 
emerging strategic initiative of a global company. In particular, the role of digitalization and 
emerging of sustainable technology in the energy management is debated including their position 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
400 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
as a factor. The result comes from an empirical study of a division of a global manufacturing 
organization that operated in the Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region and based in 
Switzerland. Where in this case, the implementation of the strategy it is still developing as the 
energy transition is a phenomenon currently occurring.  
Therefore, part 2 presents the theoretical background and explains the link between BMfS and 
energy transition. Part 3 describes the research method to address the research question. This 
section also states the reasons to select the case study of a global manufacturing company. Part 4 
presents data collection, data analysis and results including the approach to interviews and how 
the data are processed. The discussion of results and the relative details are argued in part 5. Finally, 
last section presents the conclusions of the work and possible future developments. 
Business model for sustainability – insights from the 
literature 
The conventional idea of the business model is based on the concept to deliver and maintain value 
for customers, as well as on process optimization (Massa, Tucci & Afuah, 2017; Zott, Amit & Massa, 
2011). BMfS might be observed as a reconfiguration of BM toward sustainability. In this case the 
concept of sustainability refers to the merge of environmental topics inside a company strategy, 
operation, and business model to be able to maintain economical footprint while contributing to 
environment via a sustainable development (Massa, Tucci & Afuah, 2017). Previously, in 2016, 
Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund and Hansen (2016) claimed that BMfS could also appear as a co-
evolution of large and small companies toward transformation of their business model.   
As described by Massa, Tucci and Afuah (2017), the definition of BMfS provided by Schaltegger et 
al. (2016) implies that organizations have a responsibility to develop innovative solutions that 
transform their environmental challenges into market opportunities. Hence, by looking at the triple 
bottom line, a business can generate value for multiple stakeholders whilst being an engine of 
societal progress. Thus, BMfS implies innovations reduce the negative impact on the environment 
and/or society by having organizations that can deliver economic value or change their value 
proposition. This is achieved by adopting BMI or innovation strategies toward sustainability (Bocken 
et al., 2014). Therefore, these innovations can impact at the strategic level such as: value 
proposition, supply chain, customer interface, and financial model, or alternatively they might be 
technological, organizational, and / or social innovations (Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013). 
Also, the profit-oriented business models are a significant constraint impeding sustainability 
progress for many organizations (Upward & Jones, 2016). BMfS expands the scope of BM due to 
the possibility of creating other types of value such as social and environmental, and to deliver this 
to a more extensive stakeholder group (Freudenreich, Lüdeke-Freund & Schaltegger, 2019). Stubbs 
and Cocklin (2008) also debated this shift, which showed that the success level of a BMfS is linked 
to a multitude of shareholders. This expansion of shareholders includes local communities, 
suppliers, partners, employees, as well as customers.  
Regarding BMfS or often called sustainable BM, it might be seen as integrated into the traditional 
theories of the business model and corporate sustainability, even if elements consider this theory 
as a stand-alone or sub-fields of BM and corporate sustainability (Lüdeke-Freund & Dembek, 2017). 
In this context, the most appropriate approach is to consider BMfS integrated into traditional 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
401 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
theories where they partially overlap with BM and BMI through framework, tools, canvases, 
resources and factors behind established fields (Lüdeke-Freund & Dembek, 2017). 
Link between BMfS and Energy Transition 
Bohnsack, Ciulli and Kolk (2021, p. 828) stated that the current stage of energy transition is 
characterized by coexisting of both new business and previous business models, whereby energy 
transition is ‘the shift from fossil-fuel-based electricity generation to renewables and more 
sustainable sources’. Pereira, Niesten and Pinkse (2022) further studied how energy transition is 
driving changes in the business model of utilities that operate in the area of sustainable energy 
generation. Therefore, current transformation in the energy industry has mobilized the academic 
community. It results in multiple studies investigating the modifications in the business model 
toward more sustainable energy innovation and retention looking at different type of activity and 
organization such as utilities (Pereira, Niesten & Pinkse, 2022), European electricity firms 
(Bohnsack, Ciulli & Kolk, 2021), electric vehicle (EV) manufacturers (Bohnsack & Pinkse, 2017; 
Bohnsack, Pinkse & Kolk, 2014), urban districts (Gauthier & Gilomen, 2016), or solar photovoltaic 
generation (Vernay et al., 2019). 
All these studies provide an overview of how companies are converting their business models to 
embrace sustainable energy generation and how those models reflect the value creation, delivery 
and capture moving (Pereira, Niesten & Pinkse, 2022) from traditional definition of business model 
to a new theory that focus on business model for sustainability (Bocken et al., 2014; Boons & 
Lüdeke-Freund, 2013; Schaltegger et al., 2016).  
In this article we want to investigate the following research question: 
Research question: What are antecedents for recent energy transition initiative of manufacturing 
companies that are moving their business model? 
Therefore, to answer the research question, this research adopts an in-depth investigation method 
based on case study. 
Research method and business context 
Research Method 
The research data is based on qualitative data and interviews. The data capture from interviews are 
primary data collected directly from senior management of company in the case study. Indeed, the 
semi-structure interviews have allowed to create a map between input and output factors (Gray, 
2004) that are linked back to the gaps coming from the literature. Moreover, semi-structure 
questionnaire adopted during the interviews provides certain level of flexibility to explore a 
phenomenon from different angles and eventually to let emerge new factors (Gray, 2004); i.e. 
factors not cited in the theoretical list.  
Indeed, the nature of qualitative research tends to be more explorative and to leave open-end 
consideration instead that pre-codes questions and response (Jackson, Easterby-Smith & Thorpe, 
2015). One remarkable characteristic of qualitative approach is to emerge from different type of 
source to gather data either observations or interviews (Gray, 2004).   

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
402 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Case Selection 
The current vision of the European Commission is that the buildings have a great potential to 
contribute on the 2030 and 2050 decarbonization objectives as they are responsible for the 40 % 
of the energy consumed and they contribute to 36 % of greenhouse gas emissions (European 
Commission, 2021). Most recently in December 2021, the European Commission have recasted the 
directive related to the energy performace of buildings where they reinforced the message that the 
goal is to reduce the energy consumption of the buildings while making them more energy efficient 
and less dependant from fossil source of energy. 
In this context, a division of a global manufacturing company that operates at Europe, the Middle 
East and Africa (EMEA) level which provides offering in the energy efficiency of buildings including 
energy storage, microgrids, EV charging station and related software for energy management, is a 
relevant setting. The company can deliver high quality product and services in the space of power 
management to its customer globally with an annual revenue above 17 billons dollars. This 
company is ideally to observe transformation toward sustainable solution and digitalization as the 
announced during 2021 investor meeting.  
In 2021, the global leadership team, during the annual investor conference, announced the 
company strategy toward energy transition for their electrical sector. This was the result of global 
strategy where each region decides to focus on one or more business segment. Before to define a 
global strategy for energy transition, the company was previously engaged in other sustainable 
initiatives. Indeed, over the last decade, the company started with energy storage focus both on 
residential, commercial & industrial and microgrid segments, where they partner with a major EV 
car manufacturer to provide first and second life lithium batteries and power management. Their 
offering is based on both new and used batteries coming from EV to be adopted also for stationary 
energy storage applications. After, the company decided also to invest in energy management 
system to expand the product offering together with software as a service. Most recently in 2021, 
the company acquired an EV charging stations and software charging point operator manufacturer. 
This allows to bundle together previous offering with EV charging station in order to provide more 
value to final customers 
After having collected secondary data about the company (information is public available including 
comparison with peers, industry reports and business targets) and its official communication 
towards energy transition, the authors contacted senior leaders to participate to the study and to 
provide future update of evolution of the strategy deployment. Traditionally the division is based 
in Switzerland and supervises the whole business activities at EMEA level. This includes the design, 
the manufacturing, and the sales of power quality products, and energy storage solutions for their 
B2B clients. Some software solutions, mainly to facilitate user experience and energy management, 
are also provided to final customers. 
Data and Analysis 
Data collection 
Secondary data were collected on the official website of the company, including investors 
conference, white papers and landing pages, as described in Table 2. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
403 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Primary data were collected through individual interviews conducted via online communication 
platform. Main senior leaders have been interviewed. In order to cover all geographical areas and 
directions such as general management, marketing, strategy, and sales, three individuals have been 
identified. All people interviewed were part of the global team for the definition of energy transition 
strategy inside the company. Each interview lasted between 45 and 60 minutes and was run during 
November and December 2021. They have been recorded, transcribed, and analyzed as displayed 
in Table 1.  
The semi-structured interview questionnaire is presented in Appendix A. 
TABLE 1: OVERVIEW OF THE INTERVIEWS CONDUCTED. 
Role of the person 
Responsibility 
Type, date of contact 
General Manager for 
electrical vehicle charging 
infrastructures, energy 
storage and microgrid 
Responsible for the whole 
offering and business in the 
EMEA region 
Web interview, 17 
November 2021 
Segment leader, 
Commercial & Industrial 
Building, EMEA 
Leading the commercial 
and industrial building 
segment and involved in 
the energy transition 
strategy for buildings and 
electrical vehicle charging 
infrastructure 
Web interview, 24 
November 2021 
General Manager and Sales 
leader for Italy 
Responsible for the whole 
sales and market in Italy 
Web interview, 23 
December 2021 
 
TABLE 2: OVERVIEW ABOUT SECONDARY DATA. 
Date 
Topic 
Type of data 
March 2021 
2021 Annual Investor 
Conference – Electrical 
sector 
Investor conference report 
out 
January 2022 
Understand how EV 
charging works in 
commercial buildings 
White paper 
2021 
Energy Transition 
Landing page 
 
Data analysis 
The data have been coded using a theoretical framework inspired by Foss and Saebi (2017). This 
framework was selected because it provides a set of in, out and moderator factors that it can be 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
404 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
appropriate to describe causality effects while bringing agility to describe the dynamics of a 
phenomenon that will evolve over the following years link the energy transition.  
Hence, the data have been processed via a traditional axial coding (Gray, 2004) in order to 
categorize the factors, to provide context within the phenomena is occurring and to link them to 
future consequences. Indeed, axial coding is suitable for further interpretation of the phenomena 
as a causality interaction between several parameters (Gray, 2004). Therefore, the main idea was 
to use the questionnaire to stimulate the classical elements of the business model theories that 
they emerge from the literature review and to link them with other aspects (Jackson, Easterby-
Smith & Thorpe, 2015). Those aspects include current claims in the literature regarding BMfS, 
stakeholders and performance factors. 
Results 
The energy transition initiative of the case study represents the result of previous activities toward 
sustainability that the company was already pursuing prior the announcement in 2021. This 
initiative is based on three main pillars for decarbonization, democratization and digitalization of 
the grid. Decarbonization is linked with the idea that carbon neutrality is required by 2050 and 
aligned with UN Sustainable Goal #13 on Climate action. Democratization and digitalization relate 
to the products and services that the company would like to offer to reduce the carbon footprint. 
Generally, during the interviews three main factors emerge as antecedents and motivators. 
Figure 1 shows the map of the relationship between factors and how they are positioned. Of course, 
this map is an illustration of the current conditions of the organization analyzed. The key factors 
emerging from the research have a specific current orientation that is given by the management 
cognition of the subject.  
Next section will discuss each of the findings from the case study. 
 
FIGURE 1: ILLUSTRATION OF THE RELATIOSHIP BETWEEN FACTORS AND THEIR ORIENTATION. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
405 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Discussion 
In this section, we highlight the motivation and business model antecedents for energy transition 
that we are able to capture in this case study. We make the link with former literature. 
Digitalization becomes an antecedent for the energy transition strategy  
BMI is often described as taking advantage of new digital technologies (Foss & Saebi, 2017) by 
creating new value, developing a digital platform, and new business models (Amit & Zott, 2001). 
Digitalization is considered as an essential part of the value proposition, and is perceived as viable 
for BMI, particularly for those dynamic elements of the BM (Gauthier, Bastianutti & Haggège, 2018; 
Rachinger et al., 2019). Most recently, Pereira, Niesten and Pinkse (2022) have found out that 
digitalization allows smart energy management. Indeed, Pereira, Niesten and Pinkse (2022) 
demonstrates that once the utilities modernize their network by adding digital solution, 
communication, and software service then they might focus on more digitalized and decarbonized 
energy generation. This will allow to reconfigure their traditional business model toward 
sustainability.  
Indeed, as debated by Vernay et al. (2020), the use of digital technologies in the energy sector 
represents a novelty and firms who operate in this sector. Therefore, digitalization is considering 
an antecedent because without it a full energy transition will be difficult to achieve. Indeed, 
digitalization is part of the definition of energy transition given by the company. Where, 
“digitalization has become one fundamental pilar of energy transition strategy of the company 
which is based on three components: decarbonization, democratization and digitalization” said the 
second interviewed.  
Furthermore, digital transformation refers to a strategic transformation of an organization via 
digitalization (Caputo et al., 2021). Hence, digital transformation becomes a broad topic that can 
generate several outcomes. These outcomes include changes in the organizational setup such as 
new business models or intelligent and connected products/services. These also include changes in 
economics such as the improvement of firm and industry performances via process optimization or 
spill-over modifications such as the new customer-centric and connected market (Hanelt et al., 
2020). For the specific case, digital transformation is considered as an enabler for digital services. 
For example, the maintenance and the operation at EV charging points or at grid level by collecting 
data and making meaningful for other companies. Digital transformation, as the general manager 
said, “is seen to leverage smart communication and connectivity between multiple assets such EV 
charging station, HVAC, PV inverter, energy management system and battery storage to maximize 
the energy self-consumption or to take autonomous decision to change how users consume or 
produce the energy”. This it might also affect internal process, buying/selling journey, and 
employees and customer experience.  
Consequently, digitalization as argued by Sebastian et al. (2017) is considered as a way to provide 
a better user experience and as an enable of possible new product and services by reformulating 
the value proposition and creation. The novelty is represented where digitalization is positioned as 
a factor. Indeed, differently from utilities that prioritize digitalization to reinforce a centralization 
of the energy system (Pereira et al., 2022) in this case digitalization is considered as an enabler to 
trigger decentralization of energy. In this case digital transformation is helping management to 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
406 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
visualize new business models that can generate new organization structure to add value to the 
final customers (Volberda et al., 2021). 
New technology open opportunities to embrace energy transition 
Bohnsack, Ciulli and Kolk (2021) recently demonstrated new technologies such as, storage or 
demand response have increased the reliability of renewable energy installations in order to 
provide energy over a specific timeframe. Digital technologies have further boosted this antecedent 
by enabling direct communication with customers to: share electricity consumption; incentivize 
electricity-saving behavior; or optimize energy self-consumption (Bohnsack, Ciulli & Kolk, 2021). So 
far, technology becomes a key enabler to move toward new business models. Indeed, the volatility 
and intermittency of renewable energy will impact the grid stability. Hence, the grid to operate will 
require more flexibility to manage different problems and loads including demand response at both 
grid and site level (Pereira, Niesten & Pinkse, 2022). Furthermore, from the interviews emerge that 
the growth of new technology such energy storage and EVs could represent an opportunity but also 
a challenge for sustainable energy management. Indeed, from one side those emerging 
technologies could add capacity by extra resources that are available to help the grid when it 
needed while on the other side grid operators such utilities and distribution system operators will 
require to balance between the supply and the demand of the energy (Helms, Loock & Bohnsack, 
2016). Indeed, some of the segments involved in the energy transition will change their traditional 
way to operate. This is for example the case of the buildings that in the future will be also able to 
produce energy and to support the grid wherever it is demanded. The same rule could apply to EV 
or any other battery available that eventually might provide extra capacity to help the grid when 
other resources are not available.  
Meanwhile, as argued by Helms, Loock and Bohnsack (2016), companies in the energy sector create 
new business model to satisfy the need of time-base flexibility. This aspect, as emerge over the 
interviews, will become more relevant with EVs where high demand of energy and power might 
create congestion points that the grid operators will need to manage. This implies, as the segment 
leader stated, that in the “future the flow of the energy will be more and more complex, impacting 
the whole traditional way to distribute energy that is moving from centralized to decentralize 
approach”. Still there are some open points especially in the regulation such as for example vehicle-
to-grid, to handle the energy flow from EV battery to grid, where it is not fully standardized. Those 
could add extra complexity in the development and prioritization. 
Company DNA plays a key role on motivation toward a new strategy 
definition 
Bock et al. (2012) demonstrated that the company culture and the strategic flexibility of an 
organization can affect the innovation of the business model phase. They also argue that culture is 
a key driver in the business model innovation. BMI appears as a tool for transforming and reviewing 
the BM (Demil & Lecocq, 2010), and is key to firm performance (Zott, Amit & Massa, 2011). It might 
also be a “permanent revolution” as the continuous choices each firm makes have consequences 
on the BM (Casadesus-Masanell & Ricart, 2010, pp. 198-200). Therefore, as Demil and Lecocq 
(2010) argue, managers must constantly review their portfolio of competencies and resources to 
modify the organization or alter those BM elements to best exploit the corporate potential. This 
implies that every firm makes choices with consequences on its functioning, even if there is no 
viable long-term strategic plan or a satisfactory BM (Casadesus-Masanell & Ricart, 2010). In the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
407 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
specific case study, the company DNA has been the key driver in the strategy definition for energy 
transition. Across all interviews we realized that behind the implicit motivation to increase financial 
performances, current transition in energy sector is creating demand for sustainable approaches to 
satisfy multiple stakeholders including investors, customers, shareholders, employees, and markets 
where the company plays.   
Conclusion 
This article explores what are the initial motivations and antecedents for a global power 
management company embracing sustainable activities to tackle energy transition. We have 
recorded that digitalization is becoming a central part of its strategy because it can enable 
additional value for customers and generally it can change the customer relationship (Parida, Sjödin 
& Reim, 2019; Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013) that are fundamental for the success of the energy 
transition strategy of the company.  
Other factors have been also identified such company’s DNA and technology that are considered 
as main drivers to trigger innovation in the business model. Nevertheless, lack of clearance in some 
policy or standard, like for example in the case of vehicle-to-grid to regulate the energy flow from 
EV to grid, it is creating difficulty in the company prioritizations, investment plans and in the shaping 
of firm’s business model. 
Finally, the paper contributes to the literature on new business models related to the sustainable 
energy transition by examining a specific case of a division of a global company. These can help to 
inform practice in other organizations and industries for managers and researchers interested in 
the potential of new business models in such contexts.  
Moreover, there are several unresolved topics with regard to the impact on business model for 
companies engaging in the energy transition. With regard to the future positioning of the factors 
considering the management cognition and the initial and boundary conditions, it remain 
unexplored.  
Future analysis might consider the map of other set of factors as well as moderators and outcomes 
to study how the company is adjusting its business model toward sustainable energy management 
and how this might challenge the traditional view of business model by delivering benefits to 
multiple stakeholders. Possible future exploration might look at the adjustment of the skillset and 
management cognition along the evolution and dynamics of the new business models. Those topics 
refer to the exploration of the how and the intensity that new organizational structure and activity 
reconfiguration will impact the performance of BMfS.  
We conclude that the rising of business initiatives about sustainability and in this case around 
sustainable energy management, it could further booster literature on business model for 
sustainability and contingent theories. 
References 
Amit, R. & Zott, C. (2001) Value creation in E‐business. Strategic Management Journal. 22 (6–7), 493–520. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.187  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
408 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Bock, A.J., Opsahl, T., George, G. & Gann, D.M. (2012) The Effects of Culture and Structure on Strategic 
Flexibility during Business Model Innovation. Journal of Management Studies. 49, 279-305. Available 
from: https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-6486.2011.01030.x 
Bocken, N.M.P., Short, S.W., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice review to develop 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production. 65. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.039  
Bohnsack, R. & Pinkse, J. (2017) Value Propositions for Disruptive Technologies: Reconfiguration Tactics in 
the Case of Electric Vehicles. California Management Review.  59 (4), 79–96. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1177%2F0008125617717711  
Bohnsack, R., Ciulli, F. & Kolk, A. (2021) The role of business models in firm internationalization: An 
exploration of European electricity firms in the context of the energy transition. Journal of International 
Business Studies. 52, 824-852. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1057/s41267-020-00364-4  
Bohnsack, R., Pinkse, J. & Kolk, A. (2014) Business models for sustainable technologies: Exploring business 
model evolution in the case of electric vehicles. Research Policy.  43 (2) 284–300. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2013.10.014  
Boons, F. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013) Business models for sustainable innovation: state-of-the-art and steps 
towards 
a 
research 
agenda. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
45. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2012.07.007  
Caputo, A., Pizzi, S., Pellegrini, M. M. & Dabić, M. (2021) Digitalization and business models: Where are we 
going? A science map of the field. Journal of Business Research. 123, 489-501. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2020.09.053  
Casadesus-Masanell, R. & Ricart, J. E. (2010) From Strategy to Business Models and onto Tactics. Long Range 
Planning. 43 (2-3), 195-215. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2010.01.004  
Demil, B. & Lecocq, X. (2010) Business Model Evolution: In Search of Dynamic Consistency. Long Range 
Planning. 43, 227-246. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2010.02.004 
Eaton. (2021) 2021 Annual Investor Conference. Available from: https://www.eaton.com.cn/cn/en-
us/company/investor-relations/investor-toolkit/financial-reports/annual-investor-conference.html  
[Accessed 10th January 2022]. 
Eaton. (2021) Energy transition. Available from: https://www.eaton.com/us/en-us/company/news-
insights/energy-transition.html  [Accessed 10th January 2022]. 
Eaton. (2022) Electric vehicle charging infrastructure (EVCI) for commercial buildings. Available from: 
https://www.eaton.com/gb/en-gb/markets/buildings/how-we-drive-building-efficiency-and-safety/electric-
charging/ev-charging-infrastructure/download-ev-charging-infrastructure.html [Accessed 5th February 
2022]. 
European Commission. (2021) Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE 
COUNCIL 
on 
the 
energy 
performance 
of 
buildings 
(recast). 
Available 
from: 
https://ec.europa.eu/energy/sites/default/files/proposal-recast-energy-performance-buildings-
directive.pdf  [Accessed 10th February 2022]. 
Foss, N. J. & Saebi, T. (2017) Fifteen Years of Research on Business Model Innovation: How Far Have We Come, 
and Where Should We Go? 
Journal of Management. 
43 (1), 
200–227. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1177%2F0149206316675927  
Foss, N. J. & Saebi, T. (2018) Business models and business model innovation: Between wicked and 
paradigmatic 
problems. 
Long 
Range 
Planning. 
 
51, 
9-21. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2017.07.006  
Freudenreich, B., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Schaltegger, S. (2019) A stakeholder theory perspective on business 
models: Value creation for sustainability. Journal of Business Ethics. 166, 3-18. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-019-04112-z  
Gauthier, C. & Gilomen, B. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability: Energy Efficiency in Urban Districts. 
Organization 
& 
Environment. 
 
29 
(1), 
124–144. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1177%2F1086026615592931  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
409 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Gauthier, C., Bastianutti, J. & Haggège, M. (2018) Managerial capabilities to address digital business models: 
The case of digital health. Strategic Change. 27, 173– 180. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1002/jsc.2192  
Gray, D. E. (2004) Doing Research in the Real World. London, Sage. 
Hanelt, A., Bohnsack, R., Marz, D. & Antunes Marante, C. (2020) A Systematic Review of the Literature on 
Digital Transformation: Insights and Implications for Strategy and Organizational Change. Journal of 
Management Studies. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1111/joms.12639  
Helms, T., Loock, M. & Bohnsack, R., (2016). Timing-based business models for flexibility creation in the 
electric 
power 
sector. 
Energy 
Policy. 
92, 
348-358. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2016.02.036  
Jackson, P. R., Easterby-Smith, M. & Thorpe, R. (2015) Management and Business Research. (5th ed.). London, 
Sage Publications Ltd. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Dembek, K. (2017) Sustainable business model research and practice: Emerging field or 
passing 
fancy? 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
168. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.08.093  
Massa, L., Tucci, C. L. & Afuah, A. (2017) A Critical Assessment of Business Model Research. Academy of 
Management Annals. 11 (1), 73–104. Available from: https://doi.org/10.5465/annals.2014.0072  
Parida, V., Sjödin, D. & Reim, W. (2019) Reviewing Literature on Digitalization, Business Model Innovation, 
and Sustainable Industry: Past Achievements and Future Promises. Sustainability. 11 (2), 391. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su11020391  
Pereira, G. I., Niesten, E. & Pinkse, J. (2022) Sustainable energy systems in the making: A study on business 
model adaptation in incumbent utilities. Technological Forecasting and Social Change. 174. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2021.121207  
Rachinger, M., Rauter, R., Müller, C., Vorraber, W. & Schirgi, E. (2019) Digitalization and its influence on 
business model innovation. Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management. 30 (8), 1143-1160. Available 
from: https://doi.org/10.1108/JMTM-01-2018-0020  
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. G. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, Present 
Research, and Future Avenues. Organization & Environment. 29 (1), 3–10. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1177%2F1086026615599806  
Schaltegger, S., Hörisch, J. & Freeman, R. E. (2019) Business Cases for Sustainability: A Stakeholder Theory 
Perspective. Organization & Environment.  32 (3), 191–212. https://doi.org/10.1177%2F1086026617722882  
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E. G., (2016) Business Models for Sustainability: A Co-
Evolutionary Analysis of Sustainable Entrepreneurship, Innovation, and Transformation. Organization & 
Environment. 29 (3), 264–289. https://doi.org/10.1177%2F1086026616633272 
Sebastian, I. M., Ross, J. W., Beath, C., Mocker, M., Moloney, K. G. & Fonstad, N. O. (2017) How Big Old 
Companies Navigate Digital Transformation. MIS Quarterly Executive. 16 (3), 197-213. 
Snihur, 
Y. 
& 
Bocken, 
N. 
(2022) 
Long 
Range 
Planning. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2022.102182  
Stubbs, W. & Cocklin, C. (2008) Conceptualizing a “Sustainability Business Model”. Organization & 
Environment. 21 (2), 103–127. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1177%2F1086026608318042  
UN. Secretary-General & World Commission on Environment and Development. (1987, August 4). Report of 
the World Commission on Environment and Development: note / by the Secretary-General. Available from: 
https://digitallibrary.un.org/record/139811 [Accessed 18th November 2021]. 
United Nations. The 17 goals. Available from: https://sdgs.un.org/goals [Accessed 10th November 2021]. 
Vernay, A.-L., Sohns, M., Schleich, J. & Haggège, M. (2020) Commercializing Sustainable Technologies by 
Developing Attractive Value Propositions: The Case of Photovoltaic Panels. Organization & Environment. 33 
(2), 220–244. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1177/1086026619853797  
Volberda, H. W., Khanagha, S., Baden-Fuller, C., Mihalache, O. R. & Birkinshaw, J. (2021) Strategizing in a 
digital world: Overcoming cognitive barriers, reconfiguring routines and introducing new organizational 
forms. Long Range Planning. 54 (5). Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2021.102110  
Zott, C., Amit, R. & Massa, L. (2011) The business model: Recent developments and future research. Journal 
of Management. 37, 1019–1042. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1177%2F0149206311406265 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
410 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Appendix A - Interview questionnaire 
Initial questions 
1.1 Could you introduce yourself? Roles, background, etc.… 
1.2 How do you define energy transition within your company? 
Antecedents and Motivators 
2.1 What is the division motivations to engage in the energy transition? 
2.2 Could you list main drives (external or internal) for adopting an energy transition initiative? 
Internal/Long term strategic choice. 
Internal/Digital transformation of the company. 
External/Technology. 
Do digitalization and/or digital transformation of your division help to the energy transition 
initiative? Please describe. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
411 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Early-Phase Business Model Design: 
A Structured Approach for a Digital 
Discovery Platform 
 
Breitfuss, Gert1*; Disch, Leonie1; Santa-Maria, Tomas1  
1Know-Center GmbH 
*gbreitfuss@know-center.at  
Abstract 
The present paper aims to validate commonly used business analysis methods to obtain input for 
an early phase business model regarding feasibility, desirability, and viability. The research applies 
a case study approach, exploring the early-phase development of an economically sustainable 
business model for an open science discovery platform. 
Keywords  
Business Model Innovation, Business Model Design, Platform Business Model, Open Science, Multi-
Stakeholder 
Introduction 
Although much research has been conducted on business model innovation (Osterwalder, 2010; 
Gassmann, 2013) and business model design (Zott & Amit, 2010), there are only a few proposals 
for a structured business model design process, and, to the best of the author’s knowledge, none 
that specifically address the early phase development of multi-stakeholder data platform. The main 
research objective of this paper is to select and validate commonly used business analysis methods 
to provide insights into an initial Business Model (BM) in terms of feasibility, desirability, and 
viability. 
The central use case of this research is an EU project that aims at designing and developing a 
European discovery platform dedicated to Social Science and Humanities (SSH) resources12. The 
project consortium follows the approach promoted by the European Commission (EC) that publicly-
funded research should lead to the exploitation of results, which goes one step further than the 
 
12 H2020 Project TRIPLE (Transforming Research through Innovative Practices for Linked Interdisciplinary 
Exploration) https://project.gotriple.eu/  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
412 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
mere production and dissemination of new scientific knowledge (EC, 2013). One of the project's 
main objectives is to create a valuable and viable BM for the digital multi-stakeholder platform that 
is economically sustainable beyond the project end. 
In general, the project activities are guided by Alan Cooper's interaction design principle: "A 
successful digital product needs to be desirable, viable and feasible." (Cooper et al., 2007). In the 
project's exploitation considerations, these principles are also applied in developing a suitable 
platform BM. The BM design process for such a digital multi-stakeholder platform is very 
challenging due to certain constraints such as i) restrictions concerning the function and feature set 
due to the specifications in the grant agreement, ii) uncertainty about whether the (multi-sided) 
platform offering is in line with stakeholder needs and iii) diverse interests of multi-disciplinary 
projects partners concerning the commitment to maintain the platform after the project ends. A 
structured approach at that early stage of the project aims to support the development of an 
economically sustainable BM after the project ends. Specifically, we seek to answer the following 
research question: 
RQ: How do commonly used business analysis methods support the development of an early phase 
business model regarding feasibility, desirability, and viability? 
Background 
Open science (OS) has received increasing attention in recent years,  as scientific knowledge is a 
crucial resource for increasing economic and social growth (Fell, 2019). OS’s aim is to make science 
and data findable and openly accessible. In recent years, the EU has strongly promoted and funded 
the development of open access and science structures. In consideration of the increasing demand 
for OS resources and the growing number of OS platforms, it is relevant to strategically design an 
economically sustainable business model for such platforms. 
By Business Model (BM), we understand a description or model representing a firm’s logic to create, 
provide and capture value from and for its stakeholders (Bouwman et al. 2008). According to 
Osterwalder et al. (2005), a business model is a “blueprint” for running a business. To structure the 
results in an initial BM for the OS discovery platform, we use the BM Canvas (BMC) framework from 
Osterwalder & Pigneur (2010).  
Since the OS discovery platform, which is currently under development, will act as a central 
mediator for various stakeholders (e.g. users, data repositories, research institutes, publishers, 
libraries), a multi-sided and multi-stakeholder BM needs to be considered. The interest in multi-
sided platforms has increased with the rise of digital platforms such as Uber, Airbnb or Booking.com 
(Hein et al., 2020). They create value, acting as intermediaries by connecting users and facilitating 
interaction between them (Sanchez-Cartas and Leon, 2019). 
For the early design of a BM, Bland and Osterwalder (2020) propose a model for testing business 
ideas. As depicted in Figure 1, the crucial factors for designing and testing a successful BM are 
Feasibility, Desirability, and Viability. The validation of these criteria is crucial for creating an 
economically sustainable business model. The BMC building blocks that need to be considered for 
BM feasibility are key activities, partners, and resources. To validate desirability, it is necessary to 
check whether the right customer segments are addressed and whether the services and products 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
413 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
meet the customer's needs. Concerning viability, the relevant BMC building blocks are revenue 
streams and cost structure. 
 
Figure 1: Combination of Cooper et al. (2007) interaction design principle with the BMC building blocks, according to 
Bland & Osterwalder (2020). 
Method 
To answer the research question, we applied the case study approach by Yin (2014). As central use 
case acts an EU project which aims to develop a digital Open Science discovery platform for Social 
Science and Humanities research. A consortium of 19 partners develops a full multilingual and 
multicultural discovery solution implementing innovative features and functions to support 
research (i.e., visualisation, annotation, trust building system, crowdfunding, social network and 
recommender system). 
We have used a mix of commonly known and widely used business analysis methods, namely, 
competitor analyses, expert interviews, joint exploitation survey and stakeholder analysis. The 
methods have been selected under the initial assumption that their complementary use will provide 
sufficient insights into the desirability, feasibility and viability of an early-stage BM. We collected 
data through expert interviews, online surveys, and secondary research. The interviews and 
compiled desk research results were analyzed using qualitative content analysis (Mayring, 2001) 
and the online survey was analyzed descriptively. In the following section, we briefly describe the 
four selected business analysis methods. 
Competitor analysis 
To gain a deep insight into the current offers, we carried out an extensive web-based Competitor 
analysis (Bergen & Peteraf, 2002). A list of competitor platforms that offer similar services and share 
target markets was created in collaboration with the project members. Thus, we identified forty-
seven platforms as potential challengers. To represent the competitive environment of the 
platform in the best possible way concerning different platform types, geographical origins, and 
popularity, we selected 26 platforms for the analysis. To better understand the competitive 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
414 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
environment of the future discovery platform, information about the 26 platforms was retrieved 
from their websites and documented in a template. We analyzed gathered information using 
qualitative content analysis, focusing on offered platform features and functions, organizational 
insights, strengths and weaknesses, and insights into usability and user experience. 
Expert interviews 
To complement the insights gained from the competitor analysis, we collected qualitative data 
through an interview study with general OS experts and executives from existing OS platforms. The 
project partners carried out the recruitment of the interview partners. All in all, nine interviews - 
three with OS experts and six with executives of OS services - were conducted personally (face to 
face or video calls) and lasted on average 30 minutes. We evaluated interviews through qualitative 
content analysis. The expected results provided valuable feedback for the planned range of the 
platform's functions and features (value proposition) on the one hand and input for the stakeholder 
needs on the other. 
Joint exploitation survey 
The general objective of the joint exploitation survey was to get early information on the project 
partners' willingness to maintain the platform after the project ends. We conducted an online 
survey to get an insight into the partners' exploitation plans, current interests, and opinions. The 
survey results from 19 project partners were documented and evaluated descriptively. As the 
partners are necessary for the platform's maintenance, an early assessment of their readiness was 
essential. The gained insights provided indications of the feasibility and viability of the business 
model. 
Stakeholder analysis 
Stakeholder analysis is a technique that identifies those actors, groups or individuals who have an 
influential interest in a project and business model (Ackermann & Eden, 2011). It is usually carried 
out in the run-up to or early phase of a project. Relevant "stakeholders" (or stakeholder groups) are 
systematically surveyed, briefly described and their significance and influence on the course and 
outcome of a project are assessed. Based on this, the involvement of the relevant stakeholders 
before, during and after a project phase can be planned at an early stage and any necessary action 
can be derived. The results of the analyses aim to contribute to the initial BM concerning 
desirability. 
Analysis 
The four business analyses methods previously described were carried out between December 
2019 and September 2020, during the course of the project activities. A dedicated work package on 
”Innovation, Exploitation, and Sustainability” implemented the necessary activities. 
Competitor analysis insights 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
415 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The analysis results can be summarized as follows: The primary competitors have an established 
presence in the market, and the brands are well known. However, no successful platform 
specifically targeting the SSH community could be identified. Looking at the products and services 
provided by the competitors, we recognize that the planned feature-set for the OS discovery 
platform (e.g., a visualization tool, annotation tool, trust-building system, recommender system, 
and crowdfunding service) represents unique features. These features will distinguish the platform 
from the competition. Attention needs to be paid to several agile platforms that constantly release 
innovative (e.g., AI-powered) features. 
Expert interviews insights 
The analysis of the interviews with OS experts indicates that despite the many platforms and 
services available, there are still market niches and underrepresented user groups. Important 
advice was to first look at the customer’s problems and needs and then design appropriate 
solutions. The answers regarding frequent use can be summarised as follows: offer a highly useful 
and easy-to-use service. Regarding cost factors for the build-up and operation of an OS service, 
both interview groups mentioned personnel costs as the most relevant ones. A very broad picture 
emerged regarding the possible revenue sources. Besides any kind of funding, there are numerous 
other possible revenue sources such as in-kind contributions, membership fees, sponsorship and 
donations, all of which should be examined further. In addition, we obtained many helpful 
recommendations, ranging from needed skills and finance methods to success factors for service 
development. 
Joint exploitation survey insights 
The survey results showed a high willingness of the project partners to contribute to different kinds 
of maintenance activities after the project ends. This contribution - mainly in-kind - amounts to a 
current rough estimate of about 40,000 Euros per year. Many partners are also willing to participate 
in various roles in a future operating organization for the future platform. Most of the partners (i.e., 
18 out of 19) are willing to maintain the platform after the end of the project. 
Stakeholder analysis insights 
From the stakeholder analysis we obtained information on the roles and needs of stakeholders and 
indications of their interest and power relations. From this data,  identified a variety of relevant 
stakeholder groups that require different management strategies. At this stage of the project, we 
need to focus on our main potential user groups and actively involve them in the co-design 
processes. In a next step, we should identify which service offerings (i.e., the bundle of features and 
functions) best fits each user group. We need to conduct further research on communication and 
engagement for all other identified stakeholders. 
Results 
The complement of the outcomes of the four analysis methods provided valuable insights to inform 
the feasibility, desirability, and viability aspects of the early phase business model ideas of the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
416 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
project’s OS discovery platform. Figure 2 shows the contribution of the different analysis methods 
concerning Cooper's interaction design principles (Cooper et al., 2007), which are subsequently 
transformed into concrete input for each BMC building block of the platform BM (see Figure 3). 
 
Figure 2: Contribution of the selected business analysis methods to inform the three BM sucess factors, following 
Cooper at al., 2007 
Based on the results of the analyses, we created an initial business model for the project’s OS 
discovery platform. The analysis results allowed us to index well-founded and empirically supported 
parameters regarding feasibility, desirability and viability. Concerning feasibility, key partners, key 
activities and key resources were identified based on the joint exploitation survey and the 
competitor analysis. Specific value propositions, customer relationships, customer segments and 
channels were identified as parameters for desirability based on the competitor analysy, the 
stakeholder analysis and the expert interviews. Viability was assessed by comparing cost structures 
and revenue streams identified through the joint exploitation survey supported by the competitor 
analysis and the expert interviews.  
The competitor analysis revealed a market need for the specified platform, since no existing 
platform is specifically targeting the SSH community at present. The planned feature-set for the OS 
discovery platform (i.e., a visualisation tool, annotation tool, trust-building system, recommender 
system and crowdfunding service) represents unique features that distinguish the platform from 
the competition. The outcome of the expert interviews supports the desirability of the platform 
too. From the stakeholder analysis, essential data regarding desirability could be gathered, such as 
identifying relevant stakeholders, insights into their needs and different requirements to be 
considered in stakeholder management strategy.  
The Competitor Analysis provided insights into possible organisation forms and governance 
implications in terms of feasibility. The results of the joint exploitation survey indicated that the 
consortium partners have a high willingness to contribute to different kinds of maintenance 
activities after the end of the project, a critical aspect of the project´s feasibility. In addition, many 
partners indicated that they are prepared to participate in various roles in a future operating 
organisation of the platform.  
The competitor analysis provided insights for viability by highlighting important financial 
implications such as cost factors and possible revenue streams. The results of the expert interviews 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
417 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
also underlined this information. The results of the joint exploitation survey also showed essential 
information regarding viability. 
 
Figure 3: Resulting early phase business model design for the Open Science Discovery Platform, following the BMC 
structure(Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010) 
Conclusion 
The present study explores how commonly known business analysis methods support the design 
process of an early phase BM. We described how the results of four selected business analysis 
methods provide valuable insights into the viability, desirability, and feasibility of the alternative 
BM configurations of a multi-stakeholder OS discovery platform. Our primary research objective 
was to validate that the combination of existing business analysis methods could support the design 
of an economically sustainable BM. As outlined in Figure 2, in our studied case, the applied business 
analysis methods (i.e., competitor analyses, expert interviews, joint exploitation survey and 
stakeholder analysis) contributed in different and complementary ways to validate the three 
success principles of a BM. The resulting evidence-based initial BM design provides a solid basis for 
further BM developments, to be developed in parallel with the technical implementation of the 
project´s platform. The approach proposed in this study, and the resulting BM design, can serve to 
inform future research on OS discovery platforms.  
Limitations and future research 
Overall, the range of possible methods is not limited to the four applied business analysis methods. 
Other methods that could be examined for suitability are, for example, SWOT analysis, PESTLE 
analysis or Personas. Since the developed approach has only been carried out once, our research 
implies certain limitations. Furthermore, we have explored the usefulness of the methods for the 
specific case of a multi-sided OS discovery platform in the context of a multi-stakeholder project, 
which limits the external generalizability of the outcomes to other settings. Evaluations in different 
project settings are thus recommended.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
418 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Based on the results and contributions of this study, we see a broad range of opportunities for 
further research. Further research projects could address other methods and different 
chronological sequence of the methods. In the next iteration another research stream could explore 
additional methods to design and test BM for multi-stakeholder platforms. 
Acknowledgement: The research based on this paper has received funding from the European 
Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation program under grant agreement No 863420. 
References  
Ackermann, F., Eden, C. (2011) Strategic Management of Stakeholders: Theory and Practice. Long Range 
Planning, Volume 44, Issue 3, Pages 179-196. 
Bergen, M. & Peteraf, M.A. (2002) Competitor identification and competitor analysis: a broad-based 
managerial approach. Manage. Decis. Econ., 23: 157-169.   
Bland, David J. & Osterwalder, A. (2020) Testing business ideas. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, p. 
X. 
Bouwman, H., Vos, H. d. & Haaker, T. (2008) Mobile service innovation and business models. Berlin: Springer 
9-30 
Cooper, A., Reimann, R., & Cronin, D. (2007) About face 3: the essentials of interaction design. John Wiley & 
Sons. 
European Commission. (2013) How to convert Research into Commercial Success Story available at: 
https://era.gv.at/object/document/751  
Fell, M. J. (2019) The economic impacts of open science: a rapid evidence assessment. Publications, 7(3), 46. 
Hein, A., Schreieck, M., Riasanow, T., Setzke, D.S., Wiesche, M., Böhm, M. and Krcmar, H. (2020) Digital 
platform ecosystems, Electronic Markets, Vol. 30 Nos 87-98, pp. 87-98, doi: 10.1007/s12525-019-
00377-4  
Osterwalder, A. (2004) The business model ontology: A proposition in a design science approach. Dissertation. 
University of Lausanne. Switzerland. 
Osterwalder, A. & Pigneur, Y. (2010) Business Model Generation. A Handbook for Visionaries, Game Changers, 
and Challengers. 1st ed.: John Wiley & Sons 
Sanchez-Cartas, J.M. and Leon, G. (2019) Multi-sided Platforms and Markets: A Literature Review, available 
at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/325225786 (accessed March 22nd 2021). 
Yin, R. K. (2014) Case Study Research: Design and Methods. Fifth Ed. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publication, 
Inc. 
Zott, C. & Amit, R. (2010) Business Model Design: An Activity System Perspective, Long Range Planning, 
Volume 43, Issues 2–3, Pages 216-226 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
419 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Challenges of Data-driven Service 
Development in Manufacturing 
Industries – a Review 
 
Amirhossein Gharaie1,2*, Magnus Holmén1, Maya Hoveskog1  
1Halmstad University, Halmstad, Sweden; 2Linköping University, 
Linköping, Sweden 
*amirhossein.gharaie@liu.se 
Abstract 
This literature review aims to identify the existing challenges of data-driven service development in 
manufacturing industries, and a general approach to manage the challenges. The three primary 
categories are technological, ecosystem- and business model-related. Those are identified and 
categorized through the lens of data-driven service taxonomy framework. Digital twin was 
identified as one overarching approach with the potential to solve some of the identified 
challenges. Future research can focus on exploring the different level of importance of the existing 
challenges.  
Keywords  
Data-driven service, Manufacturing, Challenge, Business model, Ecosystem, Digital twin  
Introduction 
The increasing growth of data and utilization of digital technologies have changed the business 
landscape dramatically (Engelbrecht et al., 2016; Hilbig et al., 2018) by opening the potential for 
providing new services (Coreynen et al., 2017; Kohtamäki et al., 2019; Bosch & Olsson, 2021). 
Servitization can create benefits for the companies such as competitive advantage, higher margins 
and new revenue streams (Küssel et al., 2000), e.g., by learning from customers when analyzing 
customers' data (Laine et al., 2010).  
The combined use of big data, algorithms and servitization have influenced the way companies can 
create and offer data-driven services (DDS) (Kaiser et al., 2021). While service-based businesses can 
capitalize on data to provide services, manufacturers seem to encounter many challenges for 
developing DDS (Westergren, 2011; Azkan et al., 2020). Challenges include the increase of revenue 
(Marr, 2105, p.217) and service market share, or improve their product market domain by 
utilization of DDSs in the production process (Kaiser et al., 2021). While literature has discussed the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
420 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
benefits that manufacturers can gain by developing DDS (Herterich et al., 2016), the challenges that 
they experience are still poorly understood (Schuh & Kolz, 2017; Klein et al., 2018).  
As an attempt to better understand DDS challenges, Klein et al. (2018), identified and investigated 
non-technical challenges of smart services in capital good industries. Their research categorized 
those challenges into four classes: internal resources and capabilities, customer and information, 
value proposition and customer need, and adaptability.  
Altmann and Linder (2019) illustrated challenges of data-driven servitization for remote monitoring 
of the product. It showed a tension between technical development of manufacturers’ products for 
remote monitoring of product health and usage, and the commercialization business logic of 
manufactures. Although these findings added value to identifying the DDS challenges, the focus of 
the study was on one type of value proposition (i.e., remote monitoring).  
Despite the work that has been done in the area as discussed above, more research is needed. 
Therefore, this literature review aims to identify and classify the main types of challenges that 
manufacturers might experience when developing DDS with the help of an existing framework. In 
addition, this paper investigates whether there are any generally relevant approaches to solve or 
mitigate these challenges.  
In the next section, a brief explanation of the method will be provided. The third section will be 
illustrated the preliminary results of the study, followed by a short explanation about digital twin 
as a solution and finally, concluding remarks. 
Method 
Scopus and ScienceDirect databases were used for retrieving the articles included in this review. 
The selected keywords comprise “data-driven service,” manufacturing, challenges, barriers, and 
concerns. Two types of keyword strings were used in both databases to identify articles as follows: 
(“Data driven service” AND “manufacturing”) and ("data driven servic*" AND "manufactur*" AND 
("challenge" OR "barrier" OR "concern")). 
The eligibility criteria used were English language, full text, peer-reviewed journal, and conference 
articles. In total, 224 articles were retrieved in October 2021, among which 68 were duplicates. 
Therefore, 156 articles were selected and complied in Rayyan online platform to be skimmed in the 
following steps.  
In the first step, the keywords and abstract of the articles were skimmed, and those that could not 
show relevance to DDS challenges were excluded. Afterward, a light reading of the article was 
performed to assure that the article has been written in the context of manufacturing industries so 
the challenges can be ascribed to manufacturing companies. Articles not meeting this inclusion 
criteria were excluded. In the end, 46 articles aligned with the research aim and comprised the main 
database for this literature review. After selecting the required articles, the coding process of the 
initial challenges started where the potential data was compiled in Excel tables. Coding and data 
analysis took place between mid-October to the end of December 2022. 
The initial categories for identifying the challenges in developing DDS were based on scrutinizing 
the effect of being data-driven for manufacturing companies. After the emergence of the initial 
themes as technological, ecosystem and business model, a framework by Azkan et al. (2020) was 
used for the in-depth analysis of the challenges in each category (see table 1). This framework, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
421 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
based on service-dominant logic as defined by Vargo and Lusch (2004), explains how DDS in 
manufacturing can be seen through the lens of business model (BM), represented through three 
elements of value creation, value delivery, and value capture (Teece, 2010). Each BM element 
embodies several dimensions which depict how DDS within the manufacturing industry can be 
characterized. Table 1 provides a brief explanation of each dimension. 
Business 
Model 
elements 
Dimensions 
Description 
Value 
proposition 
Main value 
Value proposition which is offered to the customers including four characteristics of 
condition monitoring, decision support, quality control and predictive operation 
Main outcome 
Outcome of the value proposition that potentially benefits manufacturers for 
efficiency gains, improved quality, new insight and new offerings 
Value 
creation 
Analytics type 
Four types of analytics result in DDS out of data comprising descriptive, diagnostics, 
predictive and prescriptive 
Data sources 
Including internal data sources includes asself-generated data and external data 
sources such as customer-provided data, acquired data, and free available data 
Data types 
Divided into four types of process, product, environmental or any other type of data 
that can be considered 
Aggregation 
level 
Describing  the aggregation of hardware and software components of DDS   
Value 
delivery 
Service delivery 
Describing how a service is provided for the customer including software, download 
and web-interface 
Service flow 
Referring to the rate of service provision as manually, predefined time, event-driven 
and stream 
Platform type 
Describing ways, a service is delivered to the customer such as analytics platform, data 
marketplace and SaaS-platform 
Value capture 
Pricing model 
Referring to the pricing schemes comprising subscription-based, transaction-based and 
indirect 
Payment mode 
It can be embedded in product, stand-alone service and data 
 
Table 1: Description of Taxonomy for data-driven services in manufacturing industries 
Note. Adopted from Azkan et al. (2020). In the original taxonomy framework, value proposition considered as a part of value creation 
element. Here these two elements are separated. 
Value proposition is the value that a company offers to the customers (Chesbrough and 
Rosenbloom, 2002) including two dimensions of main value such as analysis of the machinery 
vibrations for condition monitoring and main outcome, such as improved quality of products by 
data-driven quality control. 
Value creation encompasses the resources, activities, and components (Fruhwirth et al., 2020) of 
DDS and consists of first, analytics type such as providing the statistical data in the form of reports, 
data visualization or dashboards in descriptive analytics (Steenbergen et al., 2019). Second, data 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
422 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
source such as self-generated data via machines’ sensors or acquired data purchased in the data 
marketplace. Third, data type, e.g., natural environment data such as water, air, pollution named 
as environmental data. And fourth, the aggregation level is understood as the stage where the 
companies require the integration of DDS components, including hardware, software, and data 
sources with various data content together (Püschel et al., 2016). This integration can occur at the 
operational level (technological-related challenges) or at the ecosystem level (ecosystem-related 
challenges) (Püschel et al., 2016). 
Value delivery is about the provision of the value for the customers and explain the interaction 
between customers and providers (Barrett et al. 2015). This dimension consists of service delivery 
e.g., by providing particular software, service flow e.g., providing the service on demand (manually) 
and platform type e.g., data marketplace as a multisided platform where an intermediary connects 
buyers and sellers of data (Koutroumpis et al., 2017). 
Value capture explains how a company can monetize its created value (Schüritz et al., 2017). This 
dimension includes pricing model such as pay per use in transaction-based payments and payment 
method e.g., embedded in product when the service is provided as an additional offer to product 
(Azkan et al., 2020).  
Preliminary results  
Three primary categories of existing challenges for developing DDSs in manufacturing were 
identified: Technological-related, ecosystem-related and business model-related. The most 
frequently mentioned challenges in each of those three categories are explained below.  
Technological-related Challenges 
Technological challenges constitute most of the challenges. Using the framework by Azkan et al. 
(2020), these challenges influence different parts of BM. However, the main outcome dimension, 
aggregation, and platform type comprised the most frequently mentioned challenges. Those were 
found by mapping the number of challenges, rather that categorization by importance. Below a 
short summary of the most frequent challenges is presented.  
Main outcome 
In the main outcome, the first type of challenge is related to sustainability concerns when designing 
services (Landolfi et al., 2019; Pirola et al., 2020; Nick et al., 2021). For instance, providing 
environmental impact assessment over the product lifecycle is one of the challenges manufacturers 
face when transforming towards a low-carbon, resource efficient and sustainable economy 
(Landolfi et al., 2019). The second challenge type is validating the value proposition (Usitalo et al., 
2021) by data-driven simulations (Tomiyama et al., 2019) before providing the service in the market 
launch phase (Kampker et al., 2018). The potential benefit of services is usually realized after 
customers using the services, manufacturers face uncertainties whether to invest in servitization or 
not (Donoghue et al., 2019).   
Aggregation level 
Aggregation level refers to the integrity of DDS components to create a value (Püschel et al., 2016). 
For example, the integration of the technological components, including data (Tountopoulos et al., 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
423 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2018) and digital enablers (e.g., AI, IoT) in a platform to create connected and autonomous 
machines over the service and product lifecycle (Bu et al., 2021) is considered a major challenge. 
Additionally, integration of algorithms with operational and planning tools (Senna et al., 2020) and 
the integration of sensors data with service activities (Kammler et al., 2020) are examples of 
aggregation challenges.  
Ecosystem-related Challenges 
The ecosystem challenges were scrutinized in relation to the companies’ BM. Data source and 
aggregation were the most frequently stated ecosystem challenges for DDS development. 
Data source 
One of the challenges in DDS ecosystems is data sharing among the ecosystem actors (Kaiser et al., 
2021), mainly caused by ethical considerations and regulations. This challenge can influence the 
data source dimension of BMs. For example, in many cases, customers are concerned about the 
manipulation of data by the companies for service development (Zambetti et al., 2020). Convincing 
end users to share the condition data with manufacturers to enable an automated resupply process 
is a challenge with which manufacturers need to deal (Petrik et al., 2020). 
Aggregation level 
Similarly, to the technological-related challenges, connectedness and integration of the actors 
involved in the DDS development to provide an agreed value proposition (Schulz et al., 2021) was 
a considerable concern.  
Unwillingness to or withdrawal of sharing the resources result in lack of ecosystem resource 
integration (Schulz et al., 2021), lack of interoperability of the systems among all the ecosystem 
actors (Suppatvech et al., 2019), and lack of proper technical architecture of cyber product systems 
(Herterich et al., 2015) are other aggregation ecosystem-related challenges. For instance, in the 
context of mobility, Schulz et al. (2021) explained how lack of collaboration between private and 
public sector resulted in lack of public transport ticket provision via mobile application provider 
(Moovel Group). This made customers use an additional application which led to value co-
destruction in their ecosystem.  
Business model-related Challenges 
Business model challenges were mainly ascribed to service flow and platform types.  
Service flow 
Providing DDSs has changed how manufacturers interact with customers (Zambetti et al., 2020), 
which has been challenging for the companies with B2B interactions. For example, individualization 
of the digital products for the industrial customers requires companies to integrate their customers 
into the innovation process, implying customers might spend a considerable time and 
simultaneously take the risk of loss in knowledge advantages or unvoluntary knowledge transfer to 
elaborate their problem for the companies (Permin et al., 2021). In such environment, customers 
are not receptive towards DDS as they underestimate the intangible value of the services due to 
ineffective interaction between manufactures and customers (Klein et al., 2018; Boldosova et al., 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
424 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2020). Thus, companies should seek ways to improve customers’ attitude, behavior toward DDS 
providers (Boldosova et al., 2020) to improve the adoption of such services.  
Platform types 
Various types of challenges are associated with the platform. However, they might not necessarily 
be created by the business platform. DDS platform challenges include regulatory uncertainties in 
digital platforms when it comes to collaboration among different companies (Landolfi et al., 2019), 
radical revenue and cost structure changes (Zambetti et al., 2020), and negative customer feedback 
in the platform, which reduces the adoption rate of a DDS. 
Challenges in developing DDS in manufacturing mainly relate to the technological, ecosystem and 
business model considerations. However, it does not mean that the challenges are limited to these 
three primary categories as sometimes other challenges such as organizational culture and 
structure have been stressed in the literature (e.g., Zambetti et al., 2020; Mohammad et al., 2021).  
Digital Twins to Mitigate High Failure Rate  
A very much emphasized and discussed aspect of DDS is in creating and exploiting digital twins (DT) 
over the service and product lifecycle (e.g., Donoghue et al., 2019; Watanabe et al., 2020; 
Mohammad et al., 2021; Bu et al., 2021). DT is defined as “the virtual and computerized counterpart 
of a physical system that can be used to simulate it for various purposes” (Negri et al., 2017, p. 940). 
The presence of DT in the DDS literature is rooted in smart product-service system publications 
(Watanabe et al., 2020) where cyber physical systems (CPS) are one of the corresponding concepts 
to the required interactions between products and digital components (Zheng et al., 2018). 
Considering two spaces as physical and cyber space, Zheng et al. (2018) introduced digital twin as 
the ideal form of CPS to simulate the real space accurately for manufacturing industries. 
Although the reviewed articles in this study provided various solutions for the DDS concerns, DTs 
play a significant role in those solutions (e.g., Tomiyama et al., 2019; Pirola et al., 2020; Watanabe 
et al., 2020). For instance, Tomiyama et al. (2019) considered DT as a missing part of product 
lifecycle since the DT has the potential of being integrated with product lifecycle management 
(PLM) and enterprise resource planning (ERP) platforms to prolong the use of PLM and ERP over 
the entire product lifecycle. 
Regarding the identified challenges in this research, one of the main contributions of DT is found in 
the main outcome dimension of technological challenges where manufacturers are uncertain about 
the potential benefit of their value proposition prior to launch (e.g., Donoghue et al., 2019; 
Tomiyama et al., 2019). Having a virtual system that enables simulation of the services with their 
potential benefits before market launch reduces the probability of failure in such services 
(Tomiyama et al., 2019). This is particularly important since DDS, more than traditional services or 
products, face risk of failure within the first year after the market launch (Kampker et al., 2018).  
Another benefit of DTdevelopment relates to data type in technological challenges as DTs can 
eliminate the technical limitations for the availability of the data and simultaneously facilitate the 
monitoring of the continuous flow of data based on the dynamics of the DDS application context 
(Watanabe et al., 2020).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
425 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Despite the potential benefits of DTs for developing DDS in manufacturing, there are several 
numbers of difficulties in implementation of such technology that turn the DT into a challenging 
solution and a promising research area for the future studies (Pirola et al., 2020; Bu et al., 2021). 
One of the inherent challenges of DTs’ development can be reflected in the BM's aggregation 
dimension, where the connectedness of different data sources and data analytics for different 
collaborative companies seem crucial (Watanabe et al., 2020). Besides, the integration of legacy 
equipment into a 4.0 environment (Zambetti et al., 2020) obliges companies to investigate the 
feasibility of developing DTs which keeps the topics around digital twins debatable. 
Conclusion 
This research sought to map the challenges for DDS development for manufacturers. In total, three 
main challenges categories emerged as technological, ecosystem and business model. In the 
technological-related, the main outcome and aggregation dimensions are the most frequent 
challenges. Ecosystem as the second challenges category can influence data source and aggregation 
dimensions. Most of the challenges in the data source are due to ethical and regulatory issues that 
hinder companies from having flawless data sharing conditions. And in business model, service flow 
and platform types comprise the considerable number of challenges. 
One of the possible solutions to some of the challenges of DDS development, offering several 
benefits for the manufacturing companies is digital twins. 
The practical contribution of this research to the manufacturing companies striving to develop DDS 
is to provide an overview of the most frequent challenges which might occur as well as one potential 
solution - digital twins, which needs more investigation in the future studies. 
While this study focused on mapping the frequency of existing challenges related to DDS 
development, experienced by manufacturers, with help of DDS taxonomy framework by Azkan et 
al. (2020), no prioritization in terms of their importance was done. Therefore, it might be the case 
that the least frequent challenges not presented in this paper influence the developing DDS more 
than what was articulated above. Therefore, future research shall focus on exploring the different 
level of importance of the existing challenges.  
 
Acknowledgement 
This work was supported by the Swedish Knowledge Foundation, Grant No. 20180181, project 
name OSMaaS – Designing Open and Self Organising Mechanisms for Sustainable Mobility as a 
Service. 
 
References  
Altmann, P. and Linder, M., 2019. Managing emerging (Mis) alignments in data-driven servitization. Research-
Technology Management, 62(4), pp.37-45. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
426 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Azkan, C., Iggena, L., Gür, I., Möller, F. and Otto, B., 2020. A Taxonomy for Data-Driven Services in 
Manufacturing Industries. In PACIS (p. 184). 
Barrett, M., Davidson, E., Prabhu, J., and Vargo, S. L. 2015. “Service Innovation in the Digital Age: Key 
Contributions and Future Directions,” MIS Quarterly (39:1), pp. 135-154. 
Boldosova, V., 2020. Telling stories that sell: The role of storytelling and big data analytics in smart service 
sales. Industrial Marketing Management, 86, pp.122-134. 
Bosch, J. and Olsson, H.H., 2021. Digital for real: A multicase study on the digital transformation of companies 
in the embedded systems domain. Journal of Software: Evolution and Process, 33(5), p.e2333. 
Bu, L., Zhang, Y., Liu, H., Yuan, X., Guo, J. and Han, S., 2021. An IIoT-driven and AI-enabled framework for 
smart manufacturing system based on three-terminal collaborative platform. Advanced Engineering 
Informatics, 50, p.101370. 
Chesbrough, H. and Rosenbloom, R.S., 2002. The role of the business model in capturing value from 
innovation: evidence from Xerox Corporation's technology spin‐off companies. Industrial and 
corporate change, 11(3), pp.529-555. 
Coreynen, W., Matthyssens, P. and Van Bockhaven, W., 2017. Boosting servitization through digitization: 
Pathways and dynamic resource configurations for manufacturers. Industrial marketing 
management, 60, pp.42-53. 
Donoghue, I., Hannola, L. and Mikkola, A., 2019, August. The value of digital Twins and IoT based services in 
creating lifecycle value in B2B manufacturing companies. In 2019 Portland International Conference 
on Management of Engineering and Technology (PICMET) (pp. 1-6). IEEE. 
Engelbrecht, A., Gerlach, J. and Widjaja, T., 2016. Understanding the anatomy of data-driven business 
models–towards an empirical taxonomy. 
Fruhwirth, M., Ropposch, C. and Pammer-Schindler, V., 2020. Supporting Data-Driven Business Model 
Innovations: A structured literature review on tools and methods. Journal of Business Models, 8(1), 
pp.7-25. 
Herterich, M.M., Uebernickel, F. and Brenner, W., 2015. The impact of cyber-physical systems on industrial 
services in manufacturing. Procedia Cirp, 30, pp.323-328. 
Herterich, M.M., Uebernickel, F. and Brenner, W., 2016. Stepwise Evolution of Capabilities for Harnessing 
Digital Data Streams in Data-Driven Industrial Services. MIS Quarterly Executive, 15(4). 
Hilbig, R., Etsiwah, B. and Hecht, S., 2018, December. Berlin start-ups–the rise of data-driven business models. 
In ISPIM Innovation Symposium (pp. 1-19). The International Society for Professional Innovation 
Management (ISPIM). 
Kaiser, C., Stocker, A., Viscusi, G., Fellmann, M. and Richter, A., 2021. Conceptualising value creation in data-
driven services: The case of vehicle data. International journal of information management, 59, 
p.102335. 
Kammler, F., Hagen, S., Brinker, J. and Thomas, O., 2019. Leveraging the value of data-driven service systems 
in manufacturing: a graph-based approach. 
Kampker, A., Husmann, M., Jussen, P. and Schwerdt, L., 2018, September. Market launch process of data-
driven services for manufacturers: a qualitative guideline. In International Conference on Exploring 
Service Science (pp. 177-189). Springer, Cham. 
Klein, M.M., Biehl, S.S. and Friedli, T., 2018. Barriers to smart services for manufacturing companies–an 
exploratory study in the capital goods industry. Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing. 
Kohtamäki, M., Parida, V., Oghazi, P., Gebauer, H. and Baines, T., 2019. Digital servitization business models 
in ecosystems: A theory of the firm. Journal of Business Research, 104, pp.380-392. 
Koutroumpis, P., Leiponen, A. and Thomas, L.D., 2017. The (unfulfilled) potential of data marketplaces (No. 
53). ETLA working papers. 
Küssel, R., Liestmann, V., Spiess, M. and Stich, V., 2000. “TeleService” a customer-oriented and efficient 
service?. Journal of Materials Processing Technology, 107(1-3), pp.363-371. 
Laine, T., Paranko, J. and Suomala, P., 2010. Downstream shift at a machinery manufacturer: the case of the 
remote technologies. Management Research Review. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
427 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Landolfi, G., Barni, A., Izzo, G., Fontana, A. and Bettoni, A., 2019. A MaaS platform architecture supporting 
data 
sovereignty 
in 
sustainability 
assessment 
of 
manufacturing 
systems. Procedia 
Manufacturing, 38, pp.548-555. 
Marr, B., 2015. Big Data: Using SMART big data, analytics and metrics to make better decisions and improve 
performance. John Wiley & Sons. 
Mohammad, E., AlBarakah, L., Kudair, S. and Karaman, A.S., 2021. Evaluating the Industry 4.0 readiness of 
manufacturing companies: A case study in Kuwait. In 11th International Conference on Industrial 
Engineering and Operations Management, IEOM (pp. 6625-6636). 
Negri, E., Fumagalli, L. and Macchi, M., 2017. A review of the roles of digital twin in CPS-based production 
systems. Procedia Manufacturing, 11, pp.939-948. 
Nick, G., Kovács, T., Kő, A. and Kádár, B., 2021. Industry 4.0 readiness in manufacturing: Company Compass 
2.0, a renewed framework and solution for Industry 4.0 maturity assessment. Procedia 
Manufacturing, 54, pp.39-44. 
Permin, E., Vollmer, T., Grunert, D. and Schmitt, R., 2021. Creating digital products in engineering companies–
a practitioner’s review. Procedia CIRP, 100, pp.205-210. 
Petrik, D., Straub, D. and Herzwurm, G., 2020. Potentials of Platforms for the Realization of Digital Services 
for Component Manufacturers. Procedia CIRP, 93, pp.652-657. 
Pirola, F., Boucher, X., Wiesner, S. and Pezzotta, G., 2020. Digital technologies in product-service systems: a 
literature review and a research agenda. Computers in Industry, 123, p.103301. 
Püschel, L.C., Röglinger, M. and Schlott, H., 2016, December. What's in a Smart Thing? Development of a 
Multi-layer Taxonomy. In ICIS (Vol. 4801, pp. 1-19). 
Schuh, G. and Kolz, D., 2017, September. Morphology of strategic components for data-driven industrial 
services. In IFIP International Conference on Advances in Production Management Systems (pp. 214-
221). Springer, Cham. 
Schulz, T., Zimmermann, S., Böhm, M., Gewald, H. and Krcmar, H., 2021. Value co-creation and co-destruction 
in service ecosystems: The case of the Reach Now app. Technological Forecasting and Social 
Change, 170, p.120926. 
Schüritz, R., Seebacher, S. and Dorner, R., 2017, January. Capturing value from data: Revenue models for data-
driven services. In Proceedings of the 50th Hawaii international conference on system sciences. 
Senna, P.P., Almeida, A.H., Barros, A.C., Bessa, R.J. and Azevedo, A.L., 2020. Architecture Model for a Holistic 
and Interoperable Digital Energy Management Platform. Procedia Manufacturing, 51, pp.1117-
1124. 
Steenbergen, M.V., Grondelle, J.V. and Rieser, L., 2019. A Situational Approach to Data-Driven Service 
Innovation. In Enterprise, Business-Process and Information Systems Modeling (pp. 156-168). 
Springer, Cham. 
Suhr, D.D., 2006. Exploratory or confirmatory factor analysis?. 
Suppatvech, C., Godsell, J. and Day, S., 2019. The roles of internet of things technology in enabling servitized 
business models: A systematic literature review. Industrial Marketing Management, 82, pp.70-86. 
Teece, D.J., 2010. Business models, business strategy and innovation. Long range planning, 43(2-3), pp.172-
194. 
Tomiyama, T., Lutters, E., Stark, R. and Abramovici, M., 2019. Development capabilities for smart 
products. CIRP Annals, 68(2), pp.727-750. 
Tountopoulos, V., Kavakli, E. and Sakellariou, R., 2018, October. Towards a cloud-based controller for data-
driven service orchestration in smart manufacturing. In 2018 Sixth International Conference on 
Enterprise Systems (ES) (pp. 96-99). IEEE. 
Uusitalo, T., Hanski, J., Kortelainen, H. and Ahonen, T., 2019, July. Real Value of Data in Managing 
Manufacturing Assets. In World Congress on Engineering Asset Management (pp. 164-174). 
Springer, Cham. 
Vargo, S.L. and Lusch, R.F., 2014. Evolving to a new dominant logic for marketing (pp. 21-46). Routledge. 
Watanabe, K., Okuma, T. and Takenaka, T., 2020. Evolutionary design framework for Smart PSS: Service 
engineering approach. Advanced Engineering Informatics, 45, p.101119. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
428 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Westergren, U.H., 2011. Opening up innovation: the impact of contextual factors on the co-creation of IT-
enabled value adding services within the manufacturing industry. Information Systems and e-
business Management, 9(2), pp.223-245. 
 Zambetti, M., Khan, M.A., Pinto, R. and Wuest, T., 2020. Enabling servitization by retrofitting legacy 
equipment 
for 
Industry 
4.0 
applications: 
benefits 
and 
barriers 
for 
OEMs. Procedia 
Manufacturing, 48, pp.1047-1053. 
Zheng, P., Lin, T.J., Chen, C.H. and Xu, X., 2018. A systematic design approach for service innovation of smart 
product-service systems. Journal of cleaner production, 201, pp.657-667. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
429 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Paradoxical tensions on circular 
economy and digitalization 
Case textiles 
Päivi Luoma*,1, Esko Penttinen2, Petri Tapio3,  
Anne Toppinen1  
1University of Helsinki, Finland; 2Aalto University School of Business, 
Finland; 3University of Turku, Finland  
*paivi.luoma@helsinki.fi 
Abstract 
Textiles are deeply woven into our day-to-day life but create substantial environmental impacts. 
Digitalization could support a shift toward circular economy but raises paradoxical tensions such as 
controversies between goals and potential of specific digital technologies to drive sustainability. To 
empirically address the topic, we used the disaggregative Delphi method.  
Keywords  
circular economy, digitalization, sustainability, textiles, paradoxical tension  
Introduction 
Digitalization could support a shift toward textiles’ circular economy, but its utilization is not 
without controversies and complex interdependencies in textile value chains that cross over 
continents, industries, and actors with varying interests. Digital technologies can extend the 
lifespan of textiles, empower reverse supply chains, and save resources. At the same time, applying 
these technologies reveals competing demands and conflicting yet interrelated economic, 
environmental, and social concerns (Grigore et al., 2020; Ibn-Mohammed et al., 2021), so called 
paradoxical tensions defined as “contradictory yet interrelated elements that exist simultaneously 
and persist over time” (Smith and Lewis, 2011). 
In the academic research, the paradox approach has been successfully applied in the context of 
circular economy (van Bommel, 2018; Daddi et al., 2019; Aminoff and Sundqvist-Andberg, 2021; 
Chizaryfard, Trucco and Nuur, 2021). Although recent years have witnessed a growing interest on 
the digitalization related to circular economy (see, for example, Lopes de Sousa Jabbour et al., 2018; 
Nascimento et al., 2019; Rajput and Singh, 2019), most studies consider digitalization purely as an 
opportunity for advancing circular economy. We want to contribute to the discussion on the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
430 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
paradoxical tensions of digital paradigms in sustainability transition, specifically in the circular 
economy, with the following research question: What paradoxical tensions emerge when 
digitalization is utilized for implementing circular economy?  
Conceptual background 
Decision makers operate in complex and dynamic business environments with competing demands 
and conflicting yet interrelated economic, environmental, and social concerns (Smith and Lewis, 
2011; Hahn et al., 2014). Considering paradoxical tensions can be specifically valuable in managing 
wicked problems with complex and interconnected nature (Schad and Bansal, 2018), as is often the 
case with sustainability transition.  
The most noted paradoxical tension in corporate sustainability, also in the context of circular 
economy, is the one with competing sustainability goals and related trade-offs (Lazell, Magrizos and 
Carrigan, 2018; Reike, Vermeulen and Witjes, 2018; Daddi et al., 2019; Sehnem et al., 2019; 
Morales, 2020; Fehrer and Wieland, 2021). In addition, a move towards circular economy 
challenges incumbent business models and is likely to create competition between linear and 
circular economies, even within the business models of a company (Birkel and Müller, 2021; 
Chizaryfard, Trucco and Nuur, 2021). Tensions also arise between normative values and ethics in 
society, such as desire for sustainability, and dynamic of consumers’ behaviour, such as 
unsustainable consumption (Wannags and Gold, 2020; Chizaryfard, Trucco and Nuur, 2021). 
Unclear and inconsistent definitions, objectives, and expectations for circular economy can cause 
further tensions (Aminoff, Valkokari and Kettunen, 2016; Kouhizadeh, Zhu and Sarkis, 2019; 
Sehnem et al., 2019; Friant, Vermeulen and Salomone, 2020).  Also the tension between long- and 
short-term perspectives is well recognized (Matos et al., 2020; Zehendner et al., 2021).  
The above-mentioned tensions are reflected also when digitalization is used to advance 
development toward circular economy. In addition, digitalization as such presents a paradoxical 
tension for sustainability (Grigore et al., 2020), in the context of circular economy alike, as, despite 
of its potential benefits, it comes with associated highly intensive  resource and energy use and 
related costs (Kouhizadeh, Zhu and Sarkis, 2019; Ibn-Mohammed et al., 2021). The potential added 
value of digitalization can be contrasted by the risk of business models diminishing, losing 
competitive position, and threatening data privacy (Birkel and Müller, 2021). Using digitalization to 
implement circular economy is likely to create economic value for some actors but at the same time 
destruct it from others (Schroeder et al., 2018; Kouhizadeh, Zhu and Sarkis, 2019; Morales, 2020).  
Method 
To address the research question, we used the disaggregative, or non-consensual, Delphi method 
(Tapio, 2003; Steinert, 2009; Nowack, Endrikat and Guenther, 2011). It builds on expert views on 
the probable and preferred future (Linstone and Turoff, 1975; Rowe and Wright, 2001) and provides 
a systematic way to assess alternative future developments making the related arguments visible 
(Bell and Mau, 1971; Gausemeier, Fink and Schlake, 1998; Nowack, Endrikat and Guenther, 2011; 
Rubin, 2013). By doing this the method provides rich material for identifying paradoxical tensions 
in the emerging and complex phenomena such as rapidly evolving circular economy and 
digitalization. The Delphi process is described in Fig. 1. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
431 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Fig. 1. The disaggregative Delphi process followed in the study.  
The first round included 33 and the second round 26 expert responses. Out of the 26 experts on 
the second round, 6 represented industry entities and 10 research institutions, 10 experts were 
involved with both industry and research, and 1 expert was a public authority. There were 14 female 
and 12 male experts, and about half of the experts were 30–44 years old or younger. 
On the first Delphi round, the experts were asked to assess the probable and the desirable 
development with regard to 17 hypothetical statements about the future (year 2035), such as on 
the use of digital identities, embedded intelligence, and blockchain as well as traceability of textiles 
and availability of open life-cycle data. In addition, they were asked to provide reasoning for their 
answers. These arguments provided by the experts form the core material for the analysis of this 
paper. 
All in all, the qualitative material supplied was rich and extensive, reflecting the commitment of the 
experts and their interest in the topic. The first-round Delphi work yielded, in all, 416 comments (in 
total 32 862 words) with reasoning for the replies or answering the open questions, complemented 
with further 95 comments (3 794 words) submitted on Round 2. 
To identify potential paradoxical tensions, the experts’ qualitative comments were systematically 
reviewed. This entailed assessing the key content of the comments, such as the themes, arguments, 
and assumptions. Based on this assessment a variety of influencing factors, both driving and 
retarding the development, were identified for each of the hypothetical statements. Next, a short 
description of the preliminary identified controversies, and their opposing poles, was created for 
each of the statements. These descriptions were then scrutinized against the criteria of paradoxical 
tensions to ensure that they include clear contradictory, interrelated, and simultaneous demands. 
In addition, it was ensured that they have a clear link to both circular economy and digitalization. 
This resulted in a limited number of further defined paradoxical tensions. Their description was 
further elaborated and extended by quotations from the experts. 
Results and discussion 
The paradoxical tensions identified on the interface of circular economy and digitalization cover 
four themes, namely specific digital technologies, data sharing in textile value networks, circular 
business models that utilize data, and changing business and consumer mindset (Table 1).  
Table 1. The paradoxical tensions in circular economy and digitalization  
Paradoxical tension 
Arguments supporting the role of 
digitalization in circular economy 
Arguments criticizing the digital 
opportunities 
DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
432 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Embedded 
intelligence can add 
understanding but 
hamper textiles 
recycling 
Embedded intelligence adds 
understanding on customers and 
their use of textiles as well as enable 
product-service business models 
 
”[The potential value of embedded 
intelligence lies] in seeking 
generalisable understanding, not 
tracking individual items en masse” 
Embedded intelligence hampers 
textiles’ recycling and increases 
lifecycle costs  
 
“I do not see embedded IoT as a 
solution - it is a slippery slope to 
creating a recovery nightmare.” 
Distributed-ledger 
technology can 
trace lifecycles but 
uses energy 
Distributed-ledger technology helps 
to trace textiles and their materials 
throughout their lifecycle 
 
“…creating a data thread across the 
supply chain are the first steps to 
knowing where materials are coming 
from, what processes they undergo 
and the sustainability impacts of 
these. This needs a data 
infrastructure… Blockchain is a good 
solution for this.” 
Distributed-ledger technology 
has extensive energy demand 
and causes environmental 
impacts 
 
“It's not like this technology is 
just based in "the cloud" - the 
environmental footprint of these 
technologies are massive.” 
DATA SHARING IN TEXTILE VALUE NETWORKDS 
Open lifecycle data 
can support 
companies’ 
sustainability story 
but risk 
competitiveness 
Open sharing of textiles’ lifecycle 
data supports the credibility of textile 
companies and their sustainability 
story 
 
“…those with a good story would 
embrace this opportunity for instance 
in product passports or other such 
means… We already see examples of 
companies who want to differentiate 
on the market with their sourcing 
story (cellulosic man-made fibres 
from European sourcing, recycled 
synthetic fibres from plastic debris in 
the sea etc) and we see that 
consumers start responding to that.” 
Open data sharing reveals 
disguised data and challenges 
existing practices in the textile 
industry 
 
“It has taken ages for brands to 
relieve their supplier lists and 
this is still in childshoes. When it 
comes to raw materials there is 
limited traceability and 
transparency. I doubt if the 
global value chains are ready to 
this level of transparency.” 
Consumers can 
benefit from 
sharing data but 
find it too intimate  
Consumers will gain social benefits by 
sharing data on the use of textiles 
 
“If it brings consumers social (it’s 
socially attractive eg it’s fun and/or 
it’s a game) and/or economic 
benefits, or picks on their other 
interests (e.g. interest, willingness or 
commitment to protect environment 
or climate), they may be happy to 
share their data.” 
Data on the use of textiles is too 
intimate or invaluable to be 
shared 
 
“This kind of data is quite 
individual and intimate so I think 
consumers are not so ready to 
share this kind of data (and to be 
monitored all the time).”  
Joint practices with 
data can profit all 
but contradict with 
specific interests 
Common data standards are needed 
to ensure interoperability of circular-
economy related data on textiles 
 
 
A huge variation in the interests 
and readiness of different textile 
actors make global standards 
impossible  
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
433 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
“We should not create more 
monopolistic platforms - but systems 
that enable data-sharing and 
interoperability between 
stakeholders.” 
“It will take a lot of time to 
develop, pilot and implement 
these. It requires changes in so 
many levels in the system and 
change is slow to happen. Textile 
ecosystem and value chains are 
extremely fragmented, sectors 
like collection, sorting and 
recycling (mainly downcycling) 
have been operating in silos for 
decades.” 
CIRCULAR BUSINESS MODELS IN TEXTILE BUSINESS 
New ownership 
models can 
reinforce 
responsibility but 
also weaken it 
New ownership models encourage 
reduced material consumption and 
closed loops as companies have 
increased interest for textiles’ 
lifecycle optimization 
 
“We are going to have many different 
models of consuming textiles: rental, 
subscription, sharing, swapping, 
purchasing, re-making what you own, 
etc. I don't see any of these models 
standing out particularly, we are 
going to see an increase in all of them 
but purchasing.” 
By not owning the textiles 
consumers detach from the 
textiles and take less care 
 
“I think these models makes 
sense for selected product 
groups and segments, but am 
uncertain whether they will ever 
"hit" the mainstream and big 
masses...” 
Personalization can 
support attachment 
but not necessarily 
reduce 
consumption  
Personalization supports attachment 
to textiles and extends their lifetime 
reducing the consumption of textiles 
 
“Textiles that are customized will 
have greater emotional durability, 
and thus lower cost/use. 
Personalized textiles are not 
necessarily used any longer and 
are hard to resell causing extra 
waste 
 
 
“a focus on sufficiency and 
longer-lasting design and an 
acceptance from customers to 
own and have emotional 
connection to their products” 
CHANGING BUSINESS AND CONSUMER MINDSET 
Companies are 
under pressure for 
change but are 
locked in business 
as usual 
External and internal pressure to 
transform towards circular economy 
and increased transparency drive 
textile companies to change 
 
“Large brands and retailers [are] 
setting very ambitious targets by 
2030 and beyond… Circularity and 
climate impact are on boardroom 
and NGO agendas” 
 
Textile companies are locked 
into existing practices and lack 
the capabilities for 
transformation 
 
“Changes, that need 
investments, work, or brings 
even slight inconvenience shall 
not proceed if the mindset of the 
whole chain is not for it.” 
Consumers value 
sustainability but 
are highly price 
sensitive 
Consumers increasingly value 
sustainability 
 
“My optimistic side hopes that we for 
consumers will have seen a slight 
movement towards fewer and better 
clothes. However, my pessimistic side 
is afraid that this will only be in very 
selected segments and countries.” 
Consumers are highly price 
sensitive in their consumption 
choices 
 
“Many consumers globally are 
also price sensitive by necessity, 
don’t know about circularity, 
and have more immediate 
pressing issued to deal with.” 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
434 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Some of the tensions are characteristic for circular economy as such but are reflected, and possibly 
amplified, on the interface of circular economy and digitalization. Others emerge specifically when 
digitalization is utilized for circular economy implementation. 
The sources of the identified paradoxical tensions vary. Some of them arise from whether the total 
impact of utilizing digital technologies is environmentally positive (such as in the case of embedded 
intelligence and distributed-ledger technology). Others arise from whether data-driven business 
models encourage circular economy behaviour and practices (personalized textiles, new ownership 
models). In addition, tensions arise from whether practices utilizing digitalization that are likely to 
benefit circular economy, support business interests (open life-cycle data, data standards, 
companies’ mindset). Last, tensions arise from whether practices that are likely to benefit circular 
economy, bring customers social benefits (users sharing data, consumers’ mindset). 
Conclusions 
The findings from the study have several implications for theory. First, digital technologies have an 
evident environmental cost. Secondly, the environmental benefits of circular business models, that 
utilize digitalization, are not self-evident but depend on how these models change consumption 
and production practices in real-life. Third, transparency, reinforced by the increasing amount of 
data and ways to share it, both supports and challenges business interests. Fourth, environmental 
sustainability is only one dimension in the decision-making of both by consumers and businesses.  
The identified paradoxical tensions emphasize several actions businesses leaders should take to 
address the tensions. First, both the positive and negative impacts, in short-term and long-term, of 
utilizing digitalization in implementing circular economy should be addressed covering both 
economic, environmental, and social impacts. Second, in the fast-evolving field of circular economy 
and digitalization collaborative exploration of opportunities and new ways of working are needed 
and the current practices will inevitably be challenged. Third, the business needs consumers and 
users on board to ensure that digitalization actually supports the objectives of circular economy.  
Future research areas include further assessing the paradoxical tensions in circular economy in 
general and specifically related to digitalization as well as the management strategies for coping 
with the paradoxes. Empirical studies, specifically, would be valuable in understanding how to 
ensure the sustainability of the development and how to exploit digitalization for its benefit. 
References  
Aminoff, A. and Sundqvist-Andberg, H. (2021) ‘Constraints leading to system-level lock-ins—the case of 
electronic waste management in the circular economy’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 322, p. 
129029. doi:10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2021.129029. 
Aminoff, A., Valkokari, K. and Kettunen, O. (2016) ‘Mapping Multidimensional Value(s) for Co-creation 
Networks in a Circular Economy’, Collaboration in a Hyperconnected World. Edited by H.C. 
Afsarmanesh  LM Soares,AL, 480, pp. 629–638. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-45390-3_54. 
Bell, W. and Mau, J. (1971) ‘Images of the future: Theory and research strategy’, in Bell, W. (ed.) The sociology 
of the future: Theory, cases and annotated bibliography. Russell Sage, New York, pp. 6–44. 
Birkel, H. and Müller, J.M. (2021) ‘Potentials of industry 4.0 for supply chain management within the triple 
bottom line of sustainability – A systematic literature review’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 289, p. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
435 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
125612. doi:10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2020.125612. 
van Bommel, K. (2018) ‘Managing tensions in sustainable business models: Exploring instrumental and 
integrative 
strategies’, 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
196, 
pp. 
829–841. 
doi:10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2018.06.063. 
Chizaryfard, A., Trucco, P. and Nuur, C. (2021) ‘The transformation to a circular economy: framing an 
evolutionary view’, Journal of Evolutionary Economics, 31(2), pp. 475–504. doi:10.1007/S00191-020-
00709-0. 
Daddi, T. et al. (2019) ‘Paradoxical tensions and corporate sustainability: A focus on circular economy business 
cases’, Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 26(4), pp. 770–780. 
doi:10.1002/CSR.1719. 
Fehrer, J.A. and Wieland, H. (2021) ‘A systemic logic for circular business models’, Journal of Business 
Research, 125, pp. 609–620. doi:10.1016/J.JBUSRES.2020.02.010. 
Friant, M., Vermeulen, W.J.V. and Salomone, R. (2020) ‘A typology of circular economy discourses: Navigating 
the diverse visions of a contested paradigm’, Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 161, p. 104917. 
doi:10.1016/J.RESCONREC.2020.104917. 
Gausemeier, J., Fink, A. and Schlake, O. (1998) ‘Scenario management: An approach to develop future 
potentials’, Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 59(2), pp. 111–130. doi:10.1016/S0040-
1625(97)00166-2. 
Grigore, G. et al. (2020) ‘(Un)resolving digital technology paradoxes through the rhetoric of balance’:, 
https://doi-org.libproxy.aalto.fi/10.1177/1350508420968196, 
28(1), 
pp. 
186–207. 
doi:10.1177/1350508420968196. 
Hahn, T. et al. (2014) ‘Cognitive frames in corporate sustainability: Managerial sensemaking with paradoxical 
and business case frames’, Academy of Management Review, 39(4), pp. 463–487. 
doi:10.5465/AMR.2012.0341. 
Ibn-Mohammed, T. et al. (2021) ‘A critical analysis of the impacts of COVID-19 on the global economy and 
ecosystems and opportunities for circular economy strategies’, Resources, Conservation and 
Recycling, 164, p. 105169. doi:10.1016/J.RESCONREC.2020.105169. 
Kouhizadeh, M., Zhu, Q. and Sarkis, J. (2019) ‘Blockchain and the circular economy: potential tensions and 
critical reflections from practice’, https://doi.org/10.1080/09537287.2019.1695925, 31(11–12), pp. 
950–966. doi:10.1080/09537287.2019.1695925. 
Lazell, J., Magrizos, S. and Carrigan, M. (2018) ‘Over-claiming the circular economy: The missing dimensions’, 
undefined, 8(1), pp. 103–114. doi:10.1362/204440818X15208755029618. 
Linstone, H. and Turoff, M. (1975) The Delphi method: Techniques and applications. Addison-Wesley. 
Lopes de Sousa Jabbour, A. et al. (2018) ‘Industry 4.0 and the circular economy: a proposed research agenda 
and original roadmap for sustainable operations’, Annals of Operations Research, 270, pp. 273–286. 
doi:10.1007/s10479-018-2772-8. 
Matos, S. V. et al. (2020) ‘The hidden side of sustainable operations and supply chain management: 
unanticipated outcomes, trade-offs and tensions’, International Journal of Operations and 
Production Management, 40(12), pp. 1749–1770. doi:10.1108/IJOPM-12-2020-833/FULL/PDF. 
Morales, A.H. (2020) ‘Exploring Paradoxical Tensions in Circular Business Models—Cases from North Europe’, 
Sustainability 2020, Vol. 12, Page 7577, 12(18), p. 7577. doi:10.3390/SU12187577. 
Nascimento, D. et al. (2019) ‘Exploring Industry 4.0 technologies to enable circular economy practices in a 
manufacturing context’, Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management, 30(3), pp. 607–627. 
doi:10.1108/JMTM-03-2018-0071. 
Nowack, M., Endrikat, J. and Guenther, E. (2011) ‘Review of Delphi-based scenario studies: Quality and design 
considerations’, Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 78(9), pp. 1603–1615. 
doi:10.1016/j.techfore.2011.03.006. 
Rajput, S. and Singh, S.P. (2019) ‘Connecting circular economy and industry 4.0’, International Journal of 
Information Management, 49, pp. 98–113. doi:10.1016/J.IJINFOMGT.2019.03.002. 
Reike, D., Vermeulen, W.J.V. and Witjes, S. (2018) ‘The circular economy: New or Refurbished as CE 3.0? — 
Exploring Controversies in the Conceptualization of the Circular Economy through a Focus on History 
and Resource Value Retention Options’, Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 135, pp. 246–264. 
doi:10.1016/J.RESCONREC.2017.08.027. 
Rowe, G. and Wright, G. (2001) ‘Expert opinions in forecasting: The role of the Delphi technique’, in 
Armstrong, J.S. (ed.) Principles of Forecasting. Boston: Springer, pp. 125–144. doi:10.1007/978-0-
306-47630-3_7. 
Rubin, A. (2013) ‘Hidden, inconsistent, and influential: Images of the future in changing times’, Futures, 45, 
pp. S38–S44. doi:10.1016/J.FUTURES.2012.11.011. 
Schad, J. and Bansal, P. (2018) ‘Seeing the Forest and the Trees: How a Systems Perspective Informs Paradox 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
436 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Research’, Journal of Management Studies, 55(8), pp. 1490–1506. doi:10.1111/JOMS.12398. 
Schroeder, P. et al. (2018) ‘Circular economy and power relations in global value chains: Tensions and trade-
offs for lower income countries’, Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 136, pp. 77–78. 
doi:10.1016/J.RESCONREC.2018.04.003. 
Sehnem, S. et al. (2019) ‘Circular business models: level of maturity’, Management Decision, 57(4), pp. 1043–
1066. doi:10.1108/MD-07-2018-0844. 
Smith, W. and Lewis, M. (2011) ‘Toward a Theory of Paradox: A Dynamic equilibrium Model of Organizing’, 
Academy of Management Review, 36(2), pp. 381–403. doi:10.5465/AMR.2009.0223. 
Steinert, M. (2009) ‘A dissensus based online Delphi approach: An explorative research tool’, Technological 
Forecasting and Social Change, 76(3), pp. 291–300. doi:10.1016/J.TECHFORE.2008.10.006. 
Tapio, P. (2003) ‘Disaggregative policy Delphi Using cluster analysis as a tool for systematic scenario 
formation’, Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 70(1), pp. 83–101. doi:10.1016/S0040-
1625(01)00177-9. 
Wannags, L.L. and Gold, S. (2020) ‘Assessing tensions in corporate sustainability transition: From a review of 
the literature towards an actor-oriented management approach’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 264. 
doi:10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2020.121662. 
Zehendner, A.G. et al. (2021) ‘Paradoxical tensions in sustainable supply chain management: insights from 
the electronics multi-tier supply chain context’, International Journal of Operations and Production 
Management, 41(6), pp. 882–907. doi:10.1108/IJOPM-10-2020-0709/FULL/PDF. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
437 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Adopting business models for 
sustainability and digitalization. A 
process study of microlevel 
dynamics in an incumbent firm 
 
Lisa Heldt1,* Philip Peck1  
1IIIEE, Lund University 
*lisa.heldt@iiiee.lu.se  
Extended abstract 
Abstract 
Incumbent firms face growing pressure to transform their business towards sustainability. 
However, business models for sustainability (BMfS) and circularity are grounded in fundamentally 
different institutional logic which, for incumbents, creates tensions with existing business models, 
structures and routines. How organizations manage tensions from conflicting logics is explored 
comprehensively in research on hybrid organizations and sustainable entrepreneurship – however, 
focusing on ventures already founded with sustainability-oriented/hybrid missions. It is unclear if 
and how such logic hybridization processes unfold in incumbents and what role digitalization plays. 
This research aims to explore and explain microfoundations of how involved actors (struggle to) 
make sense of BMfS in incumbents and how this is underpinned by broader shifts towards hybrid 
organizational logics. This longitudinal case study takes a process view (Langley, 2007, 1999), 
following a large manufacturer’s Swedish division where a team works towards implementing a 
BMfS grounded in circularity and digitalization while facing doubt and inertia. Triangulating 
interviews, observations and documents, we track internal processes as they unfold in real-time to 
study how actors experience and rationalize the BMfS and navigate emerging tensions. Preliminary 
findings suggest that BMfS trigger diverging interpretations from different logics and therefore 
cause tensions. Overcoming these benefits from external impulses (e.g. customer or management 
communication that legitimizes new logic element), finding third-party common denominators (e.g. 
emphasize BMfS’ digitalization element) and continuous exposure. Upon completion, this research 
will provide a process model of how microlevel dynamics shape BMfS adoption, while opening for 
future research on hybridity intersecting with sustainable entrepreneurship literature. 
Introduction 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
438 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Companies face growing institutional pressure to transform their business to address grand 
challenges (George et al., 2016), such as climate change, by integrating sustainability into their 
business model. This can, however, be challenging as business models for sustainability (BMfS) and 
circularity reflect a “fundamentally new logic of doing business” (Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund & 
Hansen, 2016:p.270) and “change in the basic logic of value creation” (Rauter, Jonker & 
Baumgartner, 2017:p.146), for instance based on retaining ownership and product-as-a-service 
offerings. For large established firms, this creates tensions with existing business, structure and 
routines which are grounded in commercial institutional logic (Laasch, 2018; Fehrer & Wieland, 
2020). Moreover, when new BMfS entail digital elements, it remains unclear how digitalization 
facilitates or complicates BMfs uptake in incumbent – compared to entrepreneurial (Gregori & 
Holzmann, 2020) – contexts. Studies in the service and servitization literature have provided crucial 
insights into corporate shifts to service-based business models (Baines et al., 2020) and the 
corresponding transformation (Kurtmollaiev et al., 2018). Yet, the focus here is often on providing 
superior customer value and competitiveness (Gebauer et al., 2017), i.e. the new business model 
continuing to follow the overarching goals of established commercial logic. It remains unclear what 
the implications are when companies pursue service-based business models explicitly for their 
sustainability potential.  
Institutional logics are implicit, socially-constructed guiding principles that assign legitimacy to 
specific objectives, values and practices (Friedland & Alford, 1991), and thereby help actors 
understand and navigate their social and organizational reality (Greenwood et al., 2011; Besharov 
& Smith, 2014). In short, logics specify the “rules of the game” (Thornton & Ocasio, 2012:p.112). 
When multiple logics view diverging priorities or contrary behaviors as legitimate, companies 
experience tensions (Ocasio & Radoynovska, 2016; Pache & Santos, 2010). In corporate 
sustainability, emerging sustainability logic creates friction with the established commercial logic 
that underlies incumbents’ business-as-usual (Stål & Corvellec, 2018). Logic tensions emerge 
concerning value creation (what type of value; value created for whom), legitimate means (selling 
products 
vs. 
circularity, 
sufficiency 
etc.), 
perceived 
responsibility 
(shareholders 
vs. 
stakeholders/system) or time horizon (short-term vs. long-term). While BMfS are not necessarily 
incompatible with conventional business logic, they add complexity and tension that can create 
conflict if left unmanaged. 
How companies manage tensions from conflicting logics is explored comprehensively in research 
on hybrid organizations (Battilana et al., 2015; Pache & Santos, 2013; Jay, 2013) and sustainable 
entrepreneurship (Belz & Binder, 2017; Stubbs, 2017) – however, focused on ventures explicitly 
founded with hybrid sustainability-oriented missions ( “born hybrids” (Newth & Woods, 
2014:p.199)). Consequently, literature focuses on how to minimize and control tensions (Battilana 
& Dorado, 2010) or avoid mission drift (Grimes, Williams & Zhao, 2019), rather than how to build 
constructive synergies (Vedula et al., 2021) or – as needed for incumbents – how to move towards 
hybridity in the first place. It remains unclear how logic hybridization processes work for large 
incumbents that are challenged to integrate sustainability into their established commercial logic. 
The slow uptake of BMfS suggests that incumbent organizations struggle to productively manage 
tensions during transition. 
Looking beyond ‘the organization’, this paper focuses on the microlevel processes of individuals 
affecting or affected by the BMfS innovating process who need to navigate these tensions and make 
sense of the underlying logics over time. Employees – for instance sales staff – whose ideas of 
appropriate behavior are steeped in a predominantly commercial logic, are unable to fully ‘get’ how 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
439 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the BMfS works, where it creates value (beyond financial value) to customers (and other 
stakeholders), and thus – in case of sales staff – struggle to sell it successfully, with consequences 
for BMfS’ acceptance and performance.  
This paper, therefore, aims to explore and explain microlevel processes of how actors in incumbent 
firms make sense of and hybridize competing logics during (or perhaps through) BMfS innovation 
processes. I thereby hope to contribute to understanding the trajectories that BMfS adoption can 
take in incumbent firms and to extend existing knowledge on hybridization in ‘born hybrids’ to cases 
of ‘becoming hybrids’. Thus, the paper addresses how logic hybridization unfolds in an incumbent 
firm and how actors in the firm respond to and navigate tensions that emerge from conflicting logics 
while adopting a BMfS.  
Method 
This process case study (Langley, 1999, 2007), follows a company’s BMfS adoption process over >12 
months. The case company is a large manufacturer of industrial motors (>110,000 employees in 
>100 countries) with recently-updated sustainability targets. In their Swedish division, a self-
selected team around the Business development & Digitalization manager pioneers a BMfS enabled 
by circularity and digitalization. Essentially, this BMfS utilizes the company’s remote-monitoring 
sensor technology but instead of selling sensors, they servitize the offering, analyze data in-house 
and provide customers with energy-efficiency-assessments that flag looming equipment failures or 
inefficient motors. The service further includes a take-back-system for scrapped motors to close 
the loop.  
While the BMfS change appears rather incremental from a sustainability perspective, it represents 
a key steppingstone towards the team’s agenda an ‘everything-as-a-service’ (‘EaaS’) BMfS, enabled 
by circularity and digital expertise. Yet, already in its current form and despite successful customer 
trials, the BMfS triggers considerable doubt and resistance among employees. Local management 
approves but has not provided explicit endorsement or budget support. Global management views 
the BMfS as an important pilot for other markets (the Swedish institutional context being 
progressive on sustainability and digitalization) but is not formally involved.  
To explore and explain how actors in the organization make sense of conflicting logics during BMfS 
adoption, this longitudinal study generates rich insights into the phenomenon (Flyvbjerg, 2006). 
Therefore, we emphasize access to inside views and actors’ reality over an extended period (with 
primary researcher embedded in the firm if Covid allows). Specifically, the case emphasizes 
development over time and therefore leans on process methods as developed by Langley (1999, 
2007) to capture microlevel dynamics as they unfold (Langley et al., 2013). For this purpose, the 
paper tracks key events, decisions and activities through triangulation from internal documents and 
interviews. Alongside this factual timeline, rounds of semi-structured interviews capture 
individuals’ observations, experiences and (changing) understanding of BMfS and emerging 
difficulties. Interviewees include individuals (local level, global level and pilot customer 
organizations) who are/were involved in the BMfS and have first-hand experiences.  
For data analysis, the focus will be on mapping the timeline of how BMfS develops against how 
individual narratives unfold over time, to identify where tensions and diverging rationalizations 
emerge, how individuals relate to them, how they are overcome/avoided, which implications this 
has on BMfS elements, when and how individuals show changing logic constellation etc., and 
interactions between these. For capturing logic constellations and sensemaking, the study follows 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
440 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Reay & Jones’ (2016) approach of using ‘pattern-matching’ to capture institutional logics by 
analyzing data against logics’ ideal types (here, commercial and sustainability logics). Making such 
patterns and mechanisms explicit is a common approach in process research (Cornelissen, 2017) 
for abstracting rich narratives into more theoretical explanations (Langley et al., 2013). 
Expected results 
Since this research is still in the early stages of the longitudinal set-up, the findings presented here 
are preliminary. Eventually, the intention is to create a process model of how microlevel dynamics 
evolve and shape BMfS adoption in incumbents. As we are following the BMfS process in real-time, 
it remains open-ended how the BMfS, its grounding in commercial and/vs. sustainability logics, the 
BMfS’ digitalization element, or organizational dynamics more broadly are going to play out. 
Preliminary conclusions 
This study contributes to the literatures on BMfS and organizational hybridity by exploring and 
explaining the microfoundations and intra-organizational processes that underlie and shape how 
(and if) incumbents move towards BMfS and hybrid logics. Drawing on process methods 
emphasizing process thinking and development-over-time  this paper develops a more dynamic and 
time-sensitive understanding of BMfS that complementsmore static views of BMfS configurations, 
value elements or stakeholder relations implied in the business model canvas. By conceptualizing 
the BMfS not just as an outcome but also a means for navigating competing logics and tensions on 
micro-level, the paper constructs parallels with current conversations in social/sustainable 
entrepreneurship. Further exploring how hybridity is created (in incumbents, to begin with) and re-
created (in sustainable ventures, to reverse mission drift) through the BMfS as a moderating device 
represents a relevant direction for further research. 
Acknowledgements: This research is supported in part by the Mistra REES (Resource Efficient and 
Effective Solutions) program funded by Mistra (The Swedish Foundation for Strategic 
Environmental Research) (grant number DIA 2014/16). 
Keywords 
Business model; Sustainability; Institutional logics; Hybridity; Process study 
References  
Battilana, J. & Dorado, S. (2010) Building sustainable hybrid organizations. The case of commercial 
microfinance organizations. Academy of Management Journal. [Online] 53 (6), 1419–1440. Available 
from: doi:10.5465/amj.2010.57318391. 
Battilana, J., Sengul, M., Pache, A.-C. & Model, J. (2015) Harnessing productive tensions in hybrid 
organizations. The case of working integration social enterprises. Academy of Management Journal. 
58 (6), 1658–1685. 
Belz, F.M. & Binder, J.K. (2017) Sustainable entrepreneurship. A convergent process model. Business Strategy 
and the Environment. [Online] 26 (1). Available from: doi:10.1002/bse.1887. 
Besharov, M.L. & Smith, W.K. (2014) Multiple institutional logics in organizations. Explaining their varied 
nature and implications. Academy of Management Review. [Online] 39 (3), 364–381. Available from: 
doi:10.5465/amr.2011.0431. 
Cornelissen, J.P. (2017) Preserving theoretical divergence in management research. Why the explanatory 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
441 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
potential of qualitative research should be harnessed rather than suppressed. Journal of 
Management Studies. [Online] 54 (3), 368–383. Available from: doi:10.1111/joms.12210. 
Fehrer, J.A. & Wieland, H. (2020) A systemic logic for circular business models. Journal of Business Research. 
[Online] (March 2019), 1–12. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2020.02.010. 
Flyvbjerg, B. (2006) Five misunderstandings about case-study research. Qualitative Inquiry. [Online] 12 (2), 
219–245. Available from: doi:10.1177/1077800405284363. 
Friedland, R. & Alford, R. (1991) Bringing society back in. Symbols, practices, and institutional contradictions. 
In: Walter W. Powell & Paul J. DiMaggio (eds.). The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis. 
Chicago, University of Chicago Press. pp. 1–486. 
George, G., Howard-Grenville, J., Joshi, A. & Tihanyi, L. (2016) Understanding and tackling societal grand 
challenges through management research. Academy of Management Journal. 59 (6), 1880–1895. 
Greenwood, R., Raynard, M., Kodeih, F., Micelotta, E.R., et al. (2011) Institutional complexity and 
organizational responses. Academy of Management Annals. [Online] 5 (1), 317–371. Available from: 
doi:10.1080/19416520.2011.590299. 
Gregori, P. & Holzmann, P. (2020) Digital sustainable entrepreneurship. A business model perspective on 
embedding digital technologies for social and environmental value creation. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. [Online] 272, 122817. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.122817. 
Grimes, M.G., Williams, T.A. & Zhao, E.Y. (2019) Anchors aweigh. The sources, variety and challenges of 
mission drift. Academy of Management Review. 44 (4), 819–845. 
Jay, J. (2013) Navigating paradox as a mechanism of change and innovation in hybrid organizations. Academy 
of Management Journal. [Online] 56 (1), 137–159. Available from: doi:10.5465/amj.2010.0772. 
Laasch, O. (2018) Beyond the purely commercial business model. Organizational value logics and the 
heterogeneity of sustainability business models. Long Range Planning. [Online] 51 (1), 158–183. 
Available from: doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2017.09.002. 
Langley, A. (2007) Process thinking in strategic organization. Strategic Organization. [Online] 5 (3), 271–282. 
Available from: doi:10.1177/1476127007079965. 
Langley, A. (1999) Strategies for theorizing from process data. Academy of Management Review. [Online] 24 
(4), 691–710. Available from: http://www.jstor.org/stable/259349. 
Langley, A., Tsoukas, H., Smallman, C. & van de Ven, A.H. (2013) Process studies of change in organization 
and management. Unveiling temporality, activity, and flow. Academy of Management Journal. 56 
(1), 1–13. 
Newth, J. & Woods, C. (2014) Resistance to social entrepreneurship. How context shapes innovation. Journal 
of 
Social 
Entrepreneurship. 
[Online] 
5 
(2), 
192–213. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1080/19420676.2014.889739. 
Ocasio, W. & Radoynovska, N. (2016) Strategy and commitments to institutional logics. Organizational 
heterogeneity in business models and governance. Strategic Organization. [Online] 14 (4), 287–309. 
Available from: doi:10.1177/1476127015625040. 
Pache, A.-C. & Santos, F. (2013) Inside the hybrid organization. Selective coupling as a response to competing 
institutional logics. The Academy of Management Journal. 56 (4), 972–1001. 
Pache, A.-C. & Santos, F. (2010) When worlds collide: The internal dynamics of organizational responses to 
conflicting institutional demands. Academy of Management Review. [Online] 35 (3), 455–476. 
Available from: doi:10.5465/AMR.2010.51142368. 
Rauter, R., Jonker, J. & Baumgartner, R.J. (2017) Going one’s own way. Drivers in developing business models 
for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 140, 144–154. Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.04.104. 
Reay, T. & Jones, C. (2016) Qualitatively capturing institutional logics. Strategic Organization. [Online] 14 (4), 
441–454. Available from: doi:10.1177/1476127015589981. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E.G. (2016) Business models for sustainability. A co-evolutionary 
analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, innovation, and transformation. Organization and 
Environment. [Online] 29 (3), 264–289. Available from: doi:10.1177/1086026616633272. 
Stål, H.I. & Corvellec, H. (2018) A decoupling perspective on circular business model implementation. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
442 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Illustrations from Swedish apparel. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 171, 630–643. Available 
from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.09.249. 
Stubbs, W. (2017) Sustainable Entrepreneurship and B Corps. Business Strategy and the Environment. [Online] 
26 (3), 331–344. Available from: doi:10.1002/bse.1920. 
Thornton, P.H. & Ocasio, W. (2012) Institutional Logics. [Online]. Thousand Oaks, SAGE Publications. Available 
from: doi:10.4135/9781849200387.n4. 
Vedula, S., Doblinger, C., Pacheco, D., York, J., et al. (2021) Entrepreneurship for the public good. A review, 
critique, and path forward for social and environmental entrepreneurship research. Academy of 
Management Annals. [Online] Available from: doi:10.5465/annals.2019.0143. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
443 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The Paradox of Designing a Data-
Driven and Sustainable Business 
Model for Scalability 
 
The Role of Conflicting Institutional Logics in a 
Complex Healthcare Innovation Ecosystem   
Hélène Laurell1,*, Jeaneth Johansson1, 2, Patrik Hidefjäll1, James 
Barlow1, 3   
1Halmstad University; 2Luleå University of Technology 3Imperial 
College Business School   
*marie_helene.laurell@hh.se   
Extended abstract 
The role of digitalization and its effect on different types of business models is a highly topical issue 
both in the academic as in practice discourses and across different industry settings in B2B and B2C 
contexts (e.g., Kohtamäki et al., 2019; Li, 2020; Sestino et al., 2020). This paper refers to how 
digitalization through digital health technologies/solutions and data sharing may serve as an 
enabler within healthcare innovation ecosystems. Despite the growing insights to the field of data-
driven and/or connected business models during a transformative digitalization process in both 
established and emerging fields, it is surprising that so little has been written about the sub-field of 
health and the challenges the suppliers of digital health innovations face during the transition phase 
of digitalization.  
A basic assumption of this paper is that a digital health company’s design of a business model for 
the healthcare sector is not an isolated entity. Rather on the contrary, it depends highly on its 
surrounding actors which are embedded in a healthcare innovation context (Larisch, 2016). 
Moreover, actors in a healthcare innovation ecosystem hold different ‘institutional logics’, i.e., 
belief systems that both shape their cognition and guide their actions and they also face pressure 
due to divergent directions from multiple institutional logics (Greenwood et al., 2011). We argue 
that the role of different institutional logics during the process of commercializing and adopting 
new digital health technologies lacks clarity and problematization, when seen from a supply as well 
as from a demand side perspective. Especially important is to consider how a digitalization logic 
faces constraining regulatory logics, or even lacking rules of the games for digital health innovations 
along with the difficulties of interpretations regarding data privacy, security, ethics, and data 
ownership for different stakeholders within a healthcare context.     

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
444 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
An issue of much controversy regards the regulatory logic in relation to cloud solutions which may 
enable data sharing across healthcare and its different stakeholders. However, when the different 
layers of regulations, laws, and norms diverge and are interpreted differently, the advantages of 
scalability become illusory. The regulatory logic also impacts funding, payment, reimbursement 
models and procurement processes in a politically governed healthcare system which differs across 
international, national, regional, and even local levels (Laurell, 2018).  
A concept that relates to digitalization and scalability is sustainability in economic, ecological, and 
social dimensions. In this paper, we refer to sustainable health that may be supported by more 
effective and efficient digital health business models in co-production and alignment with critical 
stakeholders to ensure an efficient use and allocation of resources. Furthermore, digitalization in 
healthcare may also support social sustainability by connecting the patient to various peer groups, 
care personnel, relatives, and tools to better manage their health condition. Remote patient 
monitoring is here an example of how patients may be involved and take an active part in their own 
care through self-management.     
The aim of this research is to unpack conflicting logics in digital health start-ups’ business models 
during commercialization and to understand the challenges that are involved in designing both a 
scalable and sustainable business model during a company’s commercialization process when 
operating in the highly regulated healthcare sector. This leads us to the following research question: 
How do institutional logics influence the development of sustainable data-driven business models in 
healthcare?  
Based on our empirical findings (in total 20 interviews/workshops) from three digital health start-
ups and their challenges to get their innovations adopted and implemented in healthcare 
organizations due to unclear rules of the games in relation to regulations and reimbursement and 
procurement practices, we have identified several conflicting logics that are analyzed from a 
business model perspective.  
Our preliminary results and conclusions illustrate the role of four critical institutional logics as 
illustrated in table 1 and how their roles are interconnected in a healthcare innovation ecosystem 
and in turn affect scalability and sustainability for digital health start-ups’ business models. The 
perception of time differs considerably between start-ups and different layers of healthcare 
organizations which implies a prolonged and often cumbersome process to achieve the full benefits 
of a scalable data-driven and sustainable business model. This is particularly the case if the political 
and regulative logics are conflicting, delayed and/or non-predictable with the digital and the 
reimbursement logics. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
445 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
TABLE 1 CRITICAL LOGICS FOR (NON-)SCALABILITY AND (NON-)SUSTAINABILITY 
           Logics 
 
Scalability/ 
Sustainability 
Digitalization 
Regulatory 
Political 
Reimbursement 
 
Scalability/ 
Time  
Conflicting: due to uncertainty in 
relation to how different countries 
interpret the Cloud Act legislation. 
13 Prolonged commercialization 
and adoption as compared to other 
industry settings. Many firms 
depend on a digital infrastructure 
and electronic health records  
Conflicting: from a firm’s possibility to 
scale up as the data inspection’s 
interpretation of the GDPR rules have 
led to on-prem solutions in many 
places instead of cloud solutions. A 
bumpy and prolonged 
commercialization and adoption due to 
much uncertainty 
Delay: healthcare is politically 
governed. In a Swedish context 
the interpretation of the Cloud 
Act has implied a lot of 
uncertainty for both healthcare 
organizations and firms  
Non-predictability: Uncertainty and 
non-scalability due to difficulty in 
framing public procurements for 
digital health solutions in a patient-
focused care. Prolonged due to many 
organizational silos 
Social 
sustainability for 
patient in relation 
to data access 
Enabling empowerment from a 
patient-centric care logic 
Conflicting: Overarching goal is to 
protect the patient in relation to 
privacy/security/ethical issues. 
However, the full advantage of 
digitalization is difficult to achieve if 
data sharing is not enabled and 
secured 
Enabling: The trend goes 
towards a more patient-
centred healthcare 
Conflicting: The role of the patient 
within a more holistic, data-driven 
individualized, collaborative, and 
accessible care and the current 
reimbursement structure is not 
aligned accordingly  
Economic/ 
ecological 
sustainability for 
providers in 
relation to using 
resources  
Enabling effectiveness and 
efficiency when digital tools are 
integrated in daily practice 
Conflicting within current 
organizational silos. Difficult to achieve 
effectiveness and efficiency if saving 
data on-prem instead of in the cloud 
Delay: achieving the full 
benefits of a digital 
transformation takes time and 
the creation of a holistic and 
integrated care requires 
political courage and action  
Conflicting: holistic economic gains 
of digitalization are still 
underdeveloped due to 
organizational silos 
 
13 In the Swedish context, there has been several key events since the Cloud Act was published in relation to how legislation should be interpreted and which 
consequences it has for the use of cloud solutions that are bought from US firms.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
446 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Our research contributes to the innovation management field by linking business model design with 
an institutional logic framework (Ocasio and Radoynovska, 2016; Laasch, 2018) for understanding 
the processes of commercializing digital health innovations when embedded in a complex 
healthcare innovation ecosystem. This displays a mixture of convergent and/or conflicting logics 
such as market/commercial, professional/science and public/bureaucratic logics (Nissen et al., 
2017) or regulatory, normative, and cognitive logics (Johansson et al., 2021) whereas we have 
focused on the misalignment of digitalization, regulatory, political and reimbursement logics in this 
paper and how they in turn affect the development and adoption of data-driven business models. 
Second, we incorporate the concepts of scalability and sustainability in designing business models.  
Scalability refers to the advantages of digitalization. Sustainability is not only seen from the 
effectiveness (achieving goals) and the efficiency (using resources in the best way) that belong to 
the economic/ecological perspectives of sustainability but also the social dimension that relates to 
the transparency and democracy from a patient perspective who gain access to valuable data for 
its own care as in line with a patient-focused healthcare model.  
Keywords  
Digital health innovation, commercialization, adoption, ecosystem, institutional logics, 
digitalization, business models 
References  
Greenwood, R., Raynard, M., Kodeih, F., Micelotta, E. R., & Lounsbury, M. (2011) Institutional complexity and 
organizational responses. Academy of Management annals. 5 (1), 317-371. 
Johansson, J., Malmström, M., Wincent, J., & Parida, V. (2021) How individual cognitions overshadow 
regulations and group norms: a study of government venture capital decisions. Small Business 
Economics. 56 (2), 857-876. 
Kohtamäki, M., Paria, V., Oghazi, P., Gebauer, H., & Baines, T. (2019) Digital servitization business models in 
ecosystems: A theory of the firm. Journal of Business Research. 104 (11), 380-392.  
Laasch, O. (2018) Beyond the purely commercial business model: Organizational value logics and the 
heterogeneity of sustainability business models. Long Range Planning, 51 (1), 158-183. 
Larisch, LM, Amer-Wåhlin, I, and Hidefjäll, P (2016) Understanding healthcare innovation systems: the 
Stockholm region case. Journal of health organization and management. 30, 1221-1241 
Laurell, H. (2018) An international new venture’s commercialization of a medical technology innovation: The 
role of institutional healthcare settings. International Marketing Review. 35, 136-163 
Li, F. (2020) The digital transformation of business models in the creative industries: A holistic framework and 
emerging trends. Technovation. 92–93, 102012. 
Nissen, H. A., Evald, M. R., & Clarke, A. H. (2017) Building Relationships Between a Market Logic and Multiple 
Logics in Complex Institutional Settings. In Academy of Management Proceedings (Vol. 2017, No. 1, 
p. 12810). Briarcliff Manor, NY 10510: Academy of Management. 
Ocasio, W., & Radoynovska, N. (2016) Strategy and commitments to institutional logics: Organizational 
heterogeneity in business models and governance. Strategic Organization. 14 (4), 287-309. 
Sestino, A., Prete, I., Piper, L., & Guido, G. (2020) Internet of Things and Big Data as enablers for business 
digitalization strategies. Technovation. 98, 102173. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
447 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The Challenges in Leveraging Digital 
Business Models for Social 
Sustainability within the Next 
Generation Internet Ecosystem 
 
Fabien Rezac1,2,* and Annabeth Aagaard3 
1Aarhus University, Department of Business Development and 
Technology, Interdisciplinary Centre for Digital Business 
Development; 2University of Oxford, Saïd Business School; 
3Aarhus University, Department of Business Development and 
Technology, Interdisciplinary Centre for Digital Business 
Development 
*fabien@btech.au.dk 
 
Abstract 
This article is a second draft of a multiple case-study exploring the ecosystem of the so-called 
Next Generation Internet (i.e., a European initiative aiming to shape the development and 
evolution of the Internet into an Internet of Humans). By focusing exclusively on for-profit, data-
driven ventures, it identifies the key challenges of such organizations in developing and 
leveraging viable digital business models to achieve social sustainability. Our research builds 
primarily on the business models for sustainability research stream (i.e., Boons and Lüdeke-
Freund, 2013; Schaltegger et al., 2016) and, by applying the stakeholder value creation 
framework developed by Freudenreich et al. (2020), it strives to understand what prevents the 
involved ecosystem actors to level out the playing field, hence establish sovereignty of the 
European digital market. Despite being currently in the works, the ultimate goal of this article is 
threefold. First, this it seeks to inform the policy makers on the status quo of the European 
digital ecosystem and provide them with recommendations regarding the related relationship 
management. Second, it aims to present contributions to the research on the business models 
for sustainability, mainly by focusing on the under-researched area of digital business models 
built around socially sustainable value proposition. Third, it intends to prescriptively articulate 
the best practice in operationalizing such business models in the ecosystem of the Next 
Generation Internet, hence presenting the managerial implications in an implementable 
manner. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
448 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
449 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 2.2 - Business Model Experimentation 
for Sustainability 
Track chairs:  Nancy Bocken, Marc Dijk, Jan Konietzko 
(Maastricht University), Ilka Weissbrod, Leuphana 
(University Lüneburg), Maria Antikainen (VTT), 
Sveinung Jørgensen and Lars Pedersen (NHH 
Norwegian School of Economics) 
 
The track explores the topic of “Business model experimentation for sustainability”.  
The aim of experimentation is to put forward and accelerate novel and impactful solutions. 
Track sub-themes relate to the following aspects of business model experimentation: the 
process, impacts, and ethics and biases in experimentation. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
450 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Adopting green innovations: A 
consumer practice-perspective 
 
 
Siv Skard1, Sveinung Jørgensen1; Lars Jacob Tynes Pedersen1,*, Nhat 
Quang Le1, Helge Thorbjørnsen1 
1NHH Norwegian School of Economics 
*lars.pedersen@nhh.no 
 
Abstract 
What are the consumer practices involved in the adoption of green innovations and how does the 
process of adoption unfold? Existing literature has identified barriers and drivers of green 
consumption within a traditional understanding of how innovations are adopted. This paper argues 
that the adoption of green innovations should be understood as the gradual adoption of 
interrelated green consumer practices. These practices involve more than the individual decision-
maker, encompass changes in habits and routines, and will differ across adoption stages. We 
investigate the adoption of green consumer practices in the context of zero-waste shopping. In two 
qualitative pre-studies, we identify drivers and barriers for such adoption among non-adopters and 
early adopters. Based on this, we propose an adoption model for green consumption practices, 
which we test in our main study, using two field surveys for non-adopters and early adopters. Our 
findings further the understanding of green consumer practices and the barriers. 
 
Key words 
Sustainability, Zero Waste, Innovation, Practices, Adoption 
 
Introduction 
Companies increasingly offer green products and services, and such sustainability innovations can 
improve the social and environmental footprints of consumption (Varadarajan, 2017; Schaltegger 
& Wagner, 2011). Therefore, there has been a growing interest among scholars to study consumers’ 
willingness to adopt such solutions. However, what are the wider range of practices that must be 
changed when adopting a single sustainability innovation, and how does this unfold throughout the 
adoption process?  
As reflected in Sustainability Development Goal 12, sustainability innovations involve both greener 
production and consumption. Thus, companies that offer green products and services need to 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
451 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
facilitate consumers’ adoption thereof. This will often require comprehensive changes in consumer 
behavior and practices (Peattie, 2010; Purtik and Arenas, 2017) – changes that involve more than 
the individual decision-maker, encompass changes in habits and routines, and differ across 
adoption stages. Traditional models of the adoption of innovations have been criticized for not 
taking into account these aspects (Kristensson, Pedersen and Thorbjørnsen, forthcoming; see also 
Carberry, Bharati, Levy, and Chaudhury, 2017). In accordance with Nysveen, Pedersen and Skard 
(2020), we argue that in understanding the adoption of green innovations, we need to take three 
aspects into account: (1) what is being adopted are interlinked green practices (i.e. the object of 
adoption), not merely green products or services; (2) these practices are performed by a network 
of actors (i.e. the subject of adoption), not just the single consumer; and (3) adoption of green 
practices takes place through a dynamic process that changes over time (i.e. the stage of adoption), 
rather than in a single choice or decision at a discrete point in time. 
In this paper, we apply this contemporary perspective on the adoption of green innovations, using 
zero waste (ZW) shopping as the empirical setting. In doing so, we aim to propose and test an 
expanded adoption model in which green consumption practices are integrated. We thus shed light 
on the complex web of practices and actors involved in the adoption stages of ZW shopping.  
ZW shopping can be considered a green innovation as it represents a radical alternative to 
mainstream shopping. At the same time, however, large retailers are adopting ZW solutions, by 
means of refills, unpackaged products, and so on. ZW shopping implies packaging-free solutions 
that require consumers to use reusable containers, bags and other packaging for refilling and 
carrying items (Beitzen-Heineke et al., 2017). This type of shopping may require considerable 
changes in a variety of consumption practices for individuals and households, both in the store and 
in the home. We thus agree with prior scholars who have suggested that practice theory is a fruitful 
approach to understand the complexity of sustainable consumption (Perera, Auger, and Klein, 
2018, Røpke, 2009). According to practice theory (Warde, 2005), practices are characterized as a 
routinized type of behavior (Reckwitz, 2002), which belongs to a temporally unfolding nexus of 
activities (Schatzki, 1996), carried out by different individuals (Reckwitz, 2002). Hence, the 
company’s offering (e.g. a ZW store or a packaging-free product) is not regarded as the object of 
adoption, but as a property that initiates a series of practices that involve multiple actors (e.g. 
members of a household). 
Based on two qualitative pre-studies and a main study based on two field-surveys, we identify four 
distinct domains of ZW practices: 1) shopping practices, 2) practices in the household 3) social 
practices, and 4) general environmental practices. To capture the dynamic nature of adopting new 
consumption practices, we investigate these practices among consumers at two different stages of 
the ZW adoption process: early adopters and non-adopters. 
This paper is structured as follows: First, we outline relevant insights from existing research. Second, 
we present the findings from the two qualitative pre-studies, which reveal drivers and barriers for 
adopting ZW shopping practices among non-adopters and early adopters. Based on these findings, 
we present a conceptual adoption model for green consumption practices. Then, we present our 
methodology for the main study, in which we test the conceptual model for early adopters and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
452 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
non-adopters in two separate field surveys. Finally, we discuss our findings and outline their 
theoretical and practical implications. 
 
Literature Review 
 
Lessons from Adoption Research 
In the fields of information systems research, human-computer interaction, and consumer 
behavior, there are large volumes of research on the determinants of individual consumers’ 
adoption of technologies, products and services. Through the theoretical lenses of the technology 
acceptance model (Davis et al. 1989), the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology 
(Venkatesh et al., 2012), theory of planned behavior (Ajzen 1991), and theory of trying (Bagozzi et 
al., 1992), a large body of individual studies and meta-studies (e.g. Blut et al., 2016) inform 
researchers about the factors that drive adoption intentions and behaviors.  
Through various applications and extensions of these adoption models, a wide array of new 
adoption antecedents has been identified, including network factors (Steiner et al., 2016; 
Thorbjørnsen et al., 2009), self-confidence (Chaouali et al., 2017), social- and identity-related 
factors (Thorbjørnsen et al., 2007), consumers’ personal wealth (Døskeland and Pedersen, 2019), 
and the role of complementary products (Cenamor et al., 2013). These antecedents are important 
also for understanding adoption behavior in other settings, because they tap into important factors 
pertaining to the consumers’ social network, the role of identity expressiveness, and the role of the 
extended network of complementary products, services and platforms available to consumers. For 
the adoption of green products and practices, these factors are clearly relevant, and in various ways 
related to the practices in our expanded model, which we account for below.  
However, traditional adoption studies narrowly focus on the single individual consumer as the 
subject of adoption, and the single technology or products/services as the object of study. With the 
exception of the effects of social norms, traditional technology adoption models treat both the 
consumer and the adopted technology as islands, free of influence from their environment and the 
complex set of networks and services surrounding them. Noticeable exceptions do exist, however, 
and more recent investigations of technology adoption explicitly deal with the complex 
dependencies between networks, platforms and complementary products (cf. Steiner et al., 2016). 
Such complex markets and settings seem to have much in common with the heterogeneous 
markets, platforms and value chains that characterize green consumption.   
Still, as the object of study in consumer adoption studies is limited to the technology, product or 
service itself and the subject to the individual consumer, there is need for a more nuanced and 
realistic perspective on the adoption process. A natural place to look is the organizational 
innovation adoption literature (cf. Frambach and Schillewaert, 2002; Martin et al., 2016). 
Organizational contexts are richer than, and in some aspects perhaps also more similar to, the 
complex network of actors to which a ZW consumer has to relate. For instance, in deciding to adopt 
ZW shopping, the consumer may have to convince and onboard the rest of the family or household, 
like a manager needs to onboard co-workers in adopting a new technology.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
453 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The behaviors of individuals within organizations (such as within a household) are significantly 
influenced by prevailing norms, values and culture (e.g. Scott, 2008). Adopting ZW shopping may 
therefore be far more difficult for the consumer if the remaining parts of the family goes ‘on strike’. 
Also, by the same token, the ZW consumer has to change habits and ‘work’-processes, in the same 
manner as do new technology adopters in organizations. Hence, key theories of adoption at the 
firm level, including the technology-organization-environment (TOE) framework and institutional 
theory, might be fruitful to apply in understanding new green consumption practices. Trying to map 
out and understand the organizational and environmental contexts of such adoption seems 
particularly relevant for adoption contexts wherein the individual adopter is dependent on and 
influenced by others (Tornatzky and Fleischer, 1990; Martin et al., 2016). In this regard, a practice-
theoretical understanding of adoption, in which a new set of routines, behaviors and activities are 
adopted by an interrelated set of actors in the household (Warde, 2006; Reckwitz, 2002; Schatzki, 
1996) can provide a richer conceptualization of households’ gradual adoption of green 
consumption practices. 
 
Adoption of Green Practices 
Object of adoption. There is an extensive literature on barriers and drivers of individuals’ adoption 
of sustainability-oriented goods and services. The object of adoption in these studies is sustainable 
offerings, such as low-carbon transport vehicles (Stryja and Satzger, 2018), green electricity (Ozaki, 
2011), smart grid technology (Toft and Thøgersen, 2015), and green household goods (Vermeir and 
Verbeke, 2006). Other studies investigate barriers and drivers of more general categories of 
sustainable behaviors, including waste behavior (Taylor and Todd, 1997), energy use (e.g., Wang et 
al., 2014), mobility behavior (Schoenau and Muller, 2017), and diets (e.g., Cadario et al., 2018). 
Some of the latter studies are relevant to our inquiry, because they deal with the adoption of 
practices rather than offerings.  
Although most studies do not take into consideration the complexity of the interrelated practices 
that need to be changed or adopted, some scholars have argued that green consumption should 
be studied more holistically, taking a practice perspective. For example, Lim (2017) points out that 
there is still a lack of understanding of how to encourage more sustainable consumption patterns. 
Shove (2003) argues that green consumption is bound up with routine and habit and has 
implications for the use of tools, appliances, and household infrastructures. According to this 
perspective, the object of adoption is physical offerings or infrastructures, but the consumption 
patterns are reflected in everyday routines and habits. Since sustainable consumption is manifested 
in an interrelated set of consumer choices (e.g. electrical vehicles, sustainable food, etc.), 
consumption habits (e.g. reusable shopping bags, refill solutions, asset sharing etc.), post-
consumption and lifestyle habits (e.g. recycling, reuse, etc.), green consumption is arguably a 
complex set of practices and lifestyle habits. Hence, in our understanding of the adoption of green 
consumer practices, we need to take an expanded perspective on what constitutes the object of 
innovation. 
Subject of adoption. Most studies on adoption of green offerings investigate the likelihood of a 
single consumer’s use of a product or service. However, some scholars focus on the network of 
actors that are involved in sustainable consumption. For example, Grønhøj (2006) points out that 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
454 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
green consumer practices often involve several members of a household, and that their reactions 
to new practices may include suggestions, support, questioning, opposition and other types of 
influence on prospective participation in such practices. Therefore, to carry out these lifestyle 
changes, several people in the household need to agree on changing existing consumption habits. 
According to Reckwitz (2002, p. 250), “a practice is social, as it is a ‘type’ of behaving and 
understanding that appears at different locales and at different points of time and is carried out by 
different body/minds”. Social practices are facilitated by three elements: 1) material things (e.g. 
technology or products), 2) motivations and emotions (embedded in social meanings, values and 
norms), and 3) know-how and competence (Jaeger-Erben et al., 2015). When companies innovate 
to facilitate sustainable consumption, then, they aim to facilitate alternative practices or new 
variations of practices that are substantially different from existing or mainstream routines (Jaeger-
Erben et al., 2015). Hence, an evolutionary process underlies the adoption of new green practices, 
and in order to better understand the adoption of such practices, these factors need to be taken 
into account. 
Jackson (2005) furthermore argues that understanding the adoption of practices implies 
understanding their collective nature. Sustainable consumer trends are often socially motivated 
and take the form of social movements (Hutter, Hoffmann, and Mai, 2015). As pointed out by 
Jackson (ibid.), understanding consumer practices as social also emphasizes the existence and the 
importance of social norms in human behavior. Crucially, adoption then needs to be understood in 
a social context, embedded in an ecosystem of actors in and outside the household. 
In a sharing/collaboration economy perspective, adoption of new behavior occurs in a network of 
peer-to-peer interactions. An important motivational factor for consumers to engage in sharing 
practices is to maintain a more sustainable lifestyle (Hamari et al., 2016). Examples include food-
sharing practices (Morone and Navia, 2018), car sharing (Bardhi and Eckhardt, 2012) and asset 
sharing and access-based consumption more broadly (Belk, 2014). Whereas studies on adoption of 
sharing practices per definition account for practices involving more than one consumer, they 
generally do not investigate the broader range of practices involved in using a service. Put 
differently, the literature on the sharing economy accounts for the network of actors, but not for 
the network of practices. Like for sharing services, the adoption of ZW consumption involves 
behavioral change and new practices also for other actors of the consumer’s micro-ecosystem (i.e. 
household, friends, family). Adoption models should thus also incorporate these factors related to 
the subject of innovation when trying to explain and predict adoption decisions.  
 
Adoption stage. Recent research has identified time and adoption stage as key variables to focus 
on when trying to identify determinants of adoption. Ferratt, Prasad and Dunne (2018) argue that 
the determinants of initial adoption (for non-adopters) and determinants of continued use (for 
early adopters) are fundamentally different. The experience gained from initial trial and 
subsequent new practices, significantly shape future adoption decisions, so that they gradually 
become more automatic, habit-based and unconscious, and less focused on the conscious 
cognitive mechanisms assumed in traditional adoption research. Practice theory suggests that 
practices are dynamic entities that evolve gradually, and the adoption of practices may spill over 
to new related practices (Nash et al., 2017). In line with Ortiz de Guinea and Markus (2009), 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
455 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Ferratt et al. (2018) argue that traditional adoption models largely overlook how experience and 
new practices shape future adoption processes and that the concepts in these models (e.g. ease 
of use, usefulness etc.) may be useful when studying determinants of initial adoption (for non-
adopters), but not necessarily continued use (for early adopters). Echoing these arguments on 
how determinants of initial adoption and continued use likely are different, we distinguish 
between non-adopters and early adopters in our empirical investigations and argue for 
differential antecedents across adoption phase.  
 
Object and Subject of ZW Shopping Adoption 
The empirical context of our investigation is ZW, which has been defined as “a goal [….] to guide 
people in changing their lifestyles and practices to emulate sustainable natural cycles [….]” 
(Zaman, 2015, p. 2). Adapting to a ZW lifestyle requires changes at many different levels. First, it 
requires considerable behavioral changes at an everyday basis. Changing habits is challenging, and 
it often requires substantial self-control and willpower (e.g., Verplanken and Wood, 2006). Even if 
consumers are motivated and positive to lifestyle change, they generally exhibit considerable 
status quo bias and psychological inertia during decision-making (e.g., Samuelson and Zeckhauser, 
1988). 
Moreover, changes of everyday habits and routines influence and involve other actors in the 
consumer’s micro-ecosystems. Adopting ZW consumer practices will typically involve multiple 
members of a household – it goes beyond an individual decision maker conducting a consumption 
decision. For example, waste management in a household may involve all members in establishing 
new routines for recycling or composting kitchen waste (Grønhøj, 2006). This implies that the 
subject of adoption is often not limited to an individual consumer. In an ecosystem perspective, 
the motivations of consumers are embedded in routine and habit-based behaviors that are in part 
influenced by social norms and in part constrained by institutional contexts (Jackson, 2005). 
Since ZW shopping is a matter of lifestyle, the object of adoption takes the form of an abstract 
idea (i.e. a sustainable lifestyle), rather than a physical object (e.g. a store or a product). ZW 
shopping involves new activities and routines, inside and outside the home, which at an 
accumulated level constitute the practice of ZW shopping. Consumers adopt such practices 
gradually over time, and as such, adoption should arguably be understood as a temporal process 
rather than a discrete decision at a given point in time (Nysveen et al., 2020). In established 
adoption models, the object of adoption is a product, service, or technology. Consumer practices, 
such as ZW, in contrast, cannot be easily delimited in a similar way, but needs to be understood as 
more complex adoption processes. Hence, we argue that existing perspectives on adoption of 
innovations must be updated, taking into account the complex nature of the object of adoption of 
new green practices.  
 
Conceptual Model and Study Design 
As outlined above, the adoption of green consumer practices involves decision-making and 
behavior change that goes beyond the individual and is instead interpersonal and social; it 
encompasses a behavior more complex and multifaceted than the mere choice of using a single 
product or service; and it involves an intertemporal process of gradual and increasing change in 
consumption and post-consumption habits in the store and in the home. We argue that existing 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
456 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
models of adoption only partially capture such aspects of the adoption process of green consumer 
practices.  
 In the following, we develop an adoption model that a) integrates new consumer practices as 
drivers of behavioral intentions, b) takes into account practices that also are social and involve 
other members of the household, c) can be applied at different stages of adoption (pre and post) 
and d) builds on established theoretical relationships from adoption research. We have chosen 
the theory of planned behavior (TPB) as point of departure for our conceptual model. The reason 
for this is threefold. First, this model is robust and well tested across a wide array of contexts and 
settings, including the adoption of green behaviors (Vermeir and Verbeke, 2008; Kalafatis et al., 
1999). Second, the model is simple and allows inclusion of consumption practices as drivers of 
attitudinal beliefs, behavioral control and behavioral intentions. Conceptualizing and investigating 
the role of consumption practices are key contributions in the current paper. Third, the model is 
flexible and can be applied across different stages of adoption. These phases are important for 
understanding adoption of green consumption practices and the chosen model can be applied to 
both non-users and existing users. Our conceptual model is depicted in Figure 1:    
 
[ADD FIGURE 1 HERE] 
 
In the following, we first report on two qualitative pre-studies to identify green consumption 
practices. Pre-study 1 investigates the perceptions of the green practices associated with ZW 
shopping from the perspective of consumers in four different segments. The respondents are 
non-adopters of ZW; thus, the first pre-study investigates perceptions in this group. Pre-study 2 
investigates the perceptions of such green practices from the perspective of ZW store-owners. 
The respondents thus shed light on the group of early adopters who already conduct ZW 
shopping. Using insight from these two qualitative pre-studies, we conceptualize different 
dimensions of consumption practices and refine and revise the above depicted adoption model 
(see Figure 1). The revised adoption model of green practices is then empirically tested in two 
related field-surveys in our main study. These surveys are conducted among non-users and early 
adopters (current users) respectively, to try to capture the dynamic processes of adopting green 
consumption practices.   
 
Pre-Study 1: Non-Adopters 
 
The purpose of pre-study 1 was to investigate consumer perceptions of ZW solutions and the 
drivers and barriers associated with adopting such shopping practices. We conducted focus group 
interviews with 20 consumers in four different segments on their perceptions of various refill-
based solutions when shopping for consumer goods. Focus groups allow for data collection 
through group interaction on a topic determined by the researcher (Morgan, 1996), and for 
identifying perspectives that can be explored in more depth using additional methods (Stewart 
and Shamdasani, 1990). We conducted four focus groups in Bergen, Norway, in the spring of 
2018. Four segments were included in the study: young female adults (aged 22-23), young male 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
457 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
adults (aged 25-27), adults with children (aged 30-45) and middle-aged and elderly female adults 
(aged 57-75).  
We selected soap and detergent products in single-use packaging as the case for the focus groups. 
Participants were exposed to four different prospective distribution solutions that can reduce the 
plastic footprint of such products. These solutions were developed by a corporate partner in the 
research project from which this data is derived – a large Norwegian FMCG company. The 
solutions are illustrated in Figure 2, and are, respectively, (1) a big-bag product for home refill, (2) 
a refill station in the store, (3) home delivery of refill via e.g. Amazon Key, and (4) home delivery 
of refill via online grocery shopping. We structured the conversation around the characteristics 
and practicalities of the selected product category for increased comparability across focus groups 
(cf. Morgan, 1996).  
 
[ADD FIGURE 2 HERE] 
 
Results  
Participants did not spend much time and effort on purchase decisions for liquid soaps and 
detergents, and their shopping behavior was habit-driven. A “hassle-free” shopping experience 
was generally regarded as the main concern, although there was some awareness related to “the 
plastic problem” of using single-use containers.  
Participants emphasized price, environmental friendliness, effort, and the functionality of the 
solutions. Current refill packages were judged as being too expensive, when taking into account 
the effort required by consumers to refill the containers at home. Many participants experienced 
making a mess when trying to refill the containers and saw them as requiring different behavior 
when preparing for, and carrying out, shopping activities.  
Several participants argued that bringing containers to the store for refill would be very difficult to 
do in practice. One parent explained that “it would be like the reusable grocery bags that they 
buy, but keep forgetting at home”. Female students and senior citizens were less concerned with 
this, i.e. there was variation in the assessment of difficulty and effort.  
Many participants across segments expressed an unwillingness to change current shopping 
practices, and there was little interest for refill solutions. Participants were moreover skeptical to 
their functionality: “They are not going to be easy enough to use”, argued a 30-year old female. 
Several adult consumers feared functional risks like making a mess and the danger of mixing 
products.  
In addition, various types of physical risks were pointed out. Parents disliked storing large 
quantities of soap products in the home, due to the risk for their children. Most segments felt that 
there were risks associated with home delivery, except the young male students. Participants 
emphasized that for refill solutions to be attractive, it would need to be part of a larger 
transformation of the way they shopped all types of product categories. 
The focus groups revealed that consumers were skeptical to refill and ZW shopping due to the 
lack of a coherent system for such shopping, i.e. the barriers were not related to products (as 
objects), but to the broader ecosystem. Transportation, storage and waste handling from the 
store and in the house was also challenging. Furthermore, the adoption of such solutions required 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
458 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
coordination in the household, and functional or privacy risks for household members beyond the 
“shopper” were emphasized. Finally, since these products were habit-driven and alternative 
solutions required a larger transformation of how shopping was organized, consumers found 
them burdensome. Thus, the consumers expressed concerns of relevance to our understanding of 
what is the object of innovation, who is the adopter, and what is the broader process of adoption 
of a ZW lifestyle. 
 
 
 
 
Pre-Study 2: Early Adopters 
 
The purpose of pre-study 2 was to investigate the perceptions of ZW store owners of the nature 
and characteristics of ZW shopping and barriers and drivers thereof. We conducted semi-
structured interviews in the fall of 2018 with the owners of the three biggest ZW stores in 
Norway, Mølleren Sylvia in Oslo, Råvarene in Bergen, and Unwrapped in Arendal. All of them are 
relatively small stores with a limited scope of products – that is, customers cannot carry out their 
entire grocery shopping in these stores alone. The interviews were conducted individually with 
each of the three owners, henceforth referred to as Subject 1, 2 and 3.  
 
Results 
The store owners argued that the early adopters shop most groceries in the ZW store, are driven 
by environmental concerns and altogether avoid plastic. Subject 3 stated that “the customers 
bring their own containers (...) and often stay for quite some time.” Subject 3 emphasized that 
“...identity is absolutely important, it becomes more and more important for people to 
communicate who you are [through shopping practices]”. Subject 2 described how “many people 
use this visit almost as a kind of ‘meditation’”. According to the shop owners, ZW customers 
accept that groceries cost a little more, both in monetary terms and in terms of time used. Subject 
1 elaborated: “It requires a little more planning, and it is kind of a barrier for customers to make 
food from scratch.” All subjects described early adopters as people who are willing to make 
substantial changes in their habits and planning. Subject 2 claimed that “the disadvantage [of ZW] 
is that you have to plan better. (...) There may also be a mental barrier, because you have to bring 
more things”. In sum, she argued, “There are many steps you need to take to get there, which 
might prevent people from trying in the first place.”  
Subject 3 pointed out that ZW shopping is considered an “extreme” behavior. Subject 1 argued 
that ZW could become “mainstream”, but that change is happening quite slowly. She emphasized 
the peer effects involved in new adopters being influenced by early adopters, who are “proud to 
live like this.” She moreover pointed out that ZW stores are also almost like “lifestyle hubs” for 
consumers who want to live sustainably.  
The shop owners believed that there were technological barriers for ZW. Subject 2 explained: 
“You must first weigh the empty jar, then you must fill it up with the goods that you want, and 
then you have to weigh it again and subtract the weight of the empty jar.” She suggested 
scanning technology that identified the exact amount the customer had taken, which would make 
it easier for consumers.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
459 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Overall, the store-owners described shopping practices that are still a niche phenomenon of 
highly committed early adopters. However, they were seeing a steady expansion of the scope, i.e. 
the type of customers who tried ZW solutions. They also believed that integrating ZW solutions 
into “traditional” grocery stores could make it easier for consumers to adopt such practices, since 
it would be in the context of their familiar shopping routines. The perceptions of these key 
informants problematized whether adopting ZW necessarily becomes more burdensome, but had 
a keen understanding of how such barriers led consumers to avoid ZW. This was due both to the 
necessity of adopting planning and coordination practices that spanned from the store to the 
home, and because adopting ZW requires a shift in mindset. According to the informants, this 
relates to shopping, storing and making food in the house, and managing waste, as well as 
symbolic and identity-related dimensions of adopting such practices. Thus, they believed that 
rather than being a straightforward adoption of solutions in the store, ZW implied a 
comprehensive transition into a new set of lifestyle practices. 
 
Refined Conceptual Model and Hypotheses  
 
Based on prior adoption- and practice-research and the qualitative insights from pre-study 1 and 
2, we conceptualized four broad categories of consumer practices involved in ZW-shopping 
adoption. First, shopping practices refer to activities during, and in the planning phase of, 
shopping. Second, household practices related to food include activities in the process of 
preparing and storing food and managing the household. Third, social practices refer to the 
perceived role of different actors in the shopping and household activities. Fourth, general 
environmental practices pertain to an overall pattern of sustainable consumer behavior. We 
propose that both actual and perceived changes in these four categories of practices influence 
consumers’ beliefs and adoption intentions.  
We integrated these practices as drivers/antecedents in a well-established adoption model, 
namely the theory of planned behavior (Ajzen, 1991). Building on an existing model makes the 
relative contribution of our concepts (consumer practices) both transparent and easy to test. We 
argue that consumer practices will influence three key constructs in this model; attitudinal beliefs, 
behavioral control and behavioral intentions. In line with recent research we expect the different 
practices to have differential effects for non-adopters and early adopters, respectively. Our 
adoption model is depicted in Figure 3, and we account for our hypothesized relationships 
between the variables in the following.  
 
[ADD FIGURE 3 HERE] 
 
Shopping Practices 
We expect consumers’ beliefs of shopping practices to significantly impact their attitudinal beliefs 
and behavioral control, and in turn, their intention to buy and use ZW products (behavioral 
intentions). As evident from pre-study 1, non-users are critical to the practical aspects 
surrounding ZW shopping and believe the practices to be cumbersome and unfamiliar. These 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
460 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
critical evaluations likely impact both attitudes and beliefs about behavioral control negatively. 
According to the ZW-shop owners, however (pre-study 2), the opposite effect can be expected for 
ZW-users (early adopters). They describe the shopping experience as a positive process that also 
have important identity-expressive motivations. Also, based on extant research on habits (Aarts, 
Verplanken & Van Knippenberg, 1998) and self-perception theory (Bem, 1967), one may expect 
that once a practice has been established and repeated, a positive link between the practice and 
attitudes towards that behavior is reinforced. One reason is that people observe and interpret 
their past behavior as being caused by their own attitudes. Consequently, we expect a different 
pattern of effects of shopping practice on attitudes and intentions for early adopters as compared 
to non-adopters. 
Hence, we hypothesize; 
 
H1: Shopping practices will have a positive (negative) effect on a) attitudinal 
beliefs, b) behavioral control and c) behavioral intentions for early adopters (non-
adopters). 
 
Household Practices 
 
We expect a similar pattern for household practices. These practices are related to changes in 
how food is prepared and managed in the household. The qualitative interviews revealed that 
non-users of ZW have concerns pertaining to how their practices and behavior in the household 
have to change to adopt ZW. These beliefs likely impact attitudinal beliefs, behavioral control, 
and, in turn, behavioral intentions negatively. Based on the pre-studies, one can predict that 
negative beliefs about how to practically integrate ZW in everyday household activities (i.e. 
behavioral control) is a fairly strong adoption barrier for non-users. Conversely, the established 
habits and new household practices of early adopters likely impact attitudes and behavioral 
control positively. As they have already signaled to themselves and others that they are ZW-
shoppers, have integrated new practices in their household and can look back on these practices 
to infer own attitudes (Bem, 1967), household practices likely drive future behavior and 
behavioral intentions towards ZW.   
 
H2: Household practices will have a positive (negative) effect on a) attitudinal 
beliefs, b) behavioral control and c) behavioral intentions for early adopters (non-
adopters). 
 
Social Practices 
Social practices refer to the perceived role of different actors in the shopping and household 
activities; that is, how social life and tasks in the household will change as a consequence of ZW 
adoption. Simply put, this primarily pertains to beliefs about who (will) perform different tasks in 
the household. ZW may carry beliefs of both positive and negative aspects of social practices, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
461 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
including more coordination and tighter social life in the family, or that certain household 
members have to do more of the workload. Non-adopters in pre-study 1 voiced concern about 
increased required coordination in the household, and various forms of risk and uncertainty 
involved therein. How social practices affect attitudes for early adopters is more difficult to 
predict. The findings from ZW-shop owners (pre-study 2) suggest that in most households, ZW 
shopping is primarily driven by one eager, early-adopting household member. Although 
speculative at this point, as often not all household members are ‘onboard’ and equally 
enthusiastic about ZW-adoption, this may put strain on the social coordination and -practices, 
leading to negative effects of social practices on attitudes and intentions, even for early adopters.  
 
H3: Social practices will have a negative effect on a) attitudinal beliefs and b) 
behavioral intentions for both early adopters and non-adopters. 
 
General Environmental Practices 
General environmental practices pertain to consumers’ overall pattern of sustainable consumer 
behavior. Consumers that perform highly on these practices are generally focused on behaving 
environmentally friendly in everything from recycling behavior to public transportation and tend 
to display their sustainable consumption identity to others. We argue that consumers’ overall 
pattern of sustainable consumer behavior positively influences both attitudinal beliefs (they 
believe ZW is something positive), behavioral control and behavioral intentions. Established 
environmental practices in other domains, whether habituated or newly adopted, likely drive 
consumers to see ZW through more rose-tinted glasses. The more environmental practices 
consumers have adopted, ranging from recycling to transportation, the more positive they 
typically will be towards other new environmental practices. Moreover, the more strongly they 
believe that they will be able to understand, use and maintain such new practices (i.e. exert 
behavioral control). Hence, we expect uniform positive effects of general environmental practices 
on attitudes, behavioral control and adoption intentions:         
 
H4: General environmental practices will have a positive effect on a) attitudinal 
beliefs, b) behavioral control, and c) behavioral intentions for both early adopters 
and non-adopters. 
 
Behavioral Control 
A wide array of adoption research utilizing the TPB finds behavioral control to be a significant driver 
of both intentions and adoption. Consumers’ adoption of innovations usually entails learning new 
practices or new ways of doing things. Whether a new technology, product or a new green behavior, 
consumers usually face certain challenges in how to learn, use, or manage them – and this personal 
assessment likely impacts behavioral intentions. We expect this to be true for both adoption and 
continued use of ZW shopping.  
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
462 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
H5: Behavioral control will have a positive effect on behavioral intentions for both 
early adopters and non-adopters. 
 
Social Norm 
Social norm, or subjective norm, is also a well-established antecedent of adoption behavior. A key 
function of social norms is to alleviate risk and uncertainty, as well as guiding behavior when 
information is ambiguous. Across different contexts, social norms generally have a fairly robust 
explanatory power on intentions. Consequently, we propose the following hypothesis:     
 
H6: Social norms will have a positive effect on behavioral intentions for both early 
adopters and non-adopters. 
 
Main Study 
 
The purpose of the main study was to test the proposed adoption model of green consumption 
practices. Moreover, to try to capture the dynamic process of green practices adoption, we 
empirically tested this model across two different samples: Non-adopters (i.e. consumers with no 
experience with ZW shopping) and early adopters (i.e. current users of ZW shopping). The purpose 
was twofold: First, to see if our model and measures fit both non-users and users. Second, to 
explore the dynamic dimension of practices adoption by investigating the hypothesized differences 
in model paths (driver pattern) across different stages of the adoption process.  
 We therefore conducted two related field surveys for non-adopters and early adopters. The 
surveys comprise eight overarching topics (see Table 1). First, we developed measures of the four 
broad categories of consumer practices that could be expected to be influenced by the adoption of 
ZW solutions. These were based on our review of prior studies and on insights from the two 
qualitative pre-studies. We asked participants to assess to what extent they believed that ZW 
shopping would influence these practices. Second, we included measures from the TPB (Ajzen, 
1991), capturing attitudinal beliefs, social norm and behavioral intentions related to ZW shopping 
solutions. Finally, we measured socio-demographic characteristics. 
 
[ADD TABLE 1 HERE] 
Sample Characteristics 
We conducted the two field surveys in the fall of 2018. First, 171 current non-adopters of ZW 
solutions were interviewed at two shopping malls outside Oslo, Norway. Second, we surveyed 205 
early adopters of ZW solutions in one of the ZW stores mentioned above and through special 
interest forums for the Norwegian ZW community. Respondents in the non-adopter study self-
reported not to have adopted ZW shopping.  
The wording in the items in the surveys were slightly modified to account for whether or not 
respondents had experience with ZW solutions (e.g. by changing the present tense to the future 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
463 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
tense in questions about adopting such practices; cf. Table 1). The sample consisted of 376 
participants in two different groups. In the non-adopter group, 65.29% of respondents were female 
(mean age = 52, min = 18, max = 86), while the percentage of female respondents was 85.71% for 
early adopters (mean age = 32, min = 17, max = 87. Though the distribution of age and gender 
seems to be different across our two groups, a robustness check shows that age and gender have 
no significant effects on behavioral intentions and any other structural relationships of our interest 
when they were included as control variables in our main model. 
 
Results 
Measurement model. As we are interested in substantive cross-group comparisons, we first 
needed to test whether our measurement model was invariant across groups (Kline, 2010). As 
shown in Table 2, we find that metric invariance was supported, meaning that it is valid to compare 
structural relationships among latent constructs between groups (e.g., Kline, 2010; Steenkamp and 
Baumgartner, 1998). Note that scalar invariance was untenable, and it is not valid to compare 
means of latent constructs across groups. 
 
[ADD TABLE 2 HERE] 
 
We conducted multi-group confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), using Lavaan package version 0.6-3 
in R (Rosseel, 2012), to check if our studied latent concepts were psychometrically valid within each 
group of participants. This model provided adequate global fit measures: Satorra-Bentler’s (SB) 
scaled 𝜒2(238) = 335.617 (p < 0.001), robust CFI = 0.964, robust TLI = 0.954, RMSEA = 0.047 (90% 
CI: [0.035, 0.059]), and SRMR = 0.054 (Hu and Bentler, 1999). Furthermore, all items significantly 
loaded on the expected latent variables and their standardized factor loadings were all higher than 
0.55 (see Table 3), providing high evidence for convergent validity (Bagozzi and Yi, 1991; Hair et al., 
2010). The values of average variance extracted (AVE) ranged from 0.52 to 0.72, while those of 
composite reliability (CR) ranged from 0.69 to 0.89, indicating high convergent validity. Following 
previous research (e.g., Tomczyk et al. 2016), in order to improve the model fit, we allowed the 
error terms of two items measuring behavioral intentions to be correlated. Our results remained 
robust when we did not include the correlation between these two error terms.   
 
[ADD TABLE 3 HERE] 
 
To assess discriminant validity, we merged the two samples into a single data set (e.g., Kadic-
Maglajlic et al., 2018). Our results show that all the AVE values surpassed the required threshold of 
0.50 (Fornell and Larcker, 1981). Importantly, we confirm discriminant validity of the studied 
constructs because (1) the square roots of the AVE scores for any two constructs were both larger 
than their shared variance (except for the square root of the AVE of attitudinal beliefs (0.77), which 
was slightly lower than its correlation with behavioral intentions (0.79)), (2) the 95% confidence 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
464 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
intervals of all the correlations did not contain 1.0 (Bagozzi and Yi, 1991), and (3) the heterotrait-
monotrait (HTMT) values were all below the recommended cut-off value of 0.85 (Henseler et al. 
2015) (see Appendix 1).   
 
Structural model. As our measurement model was metrically invariant across groups, we could 
examine if structural paths were also invariant across groups. First, we performed a multi-group 
structural equation model (SEM) in which all structural coefficients were freely estimated between 
groups. This “totally free” structural model yielded good global fit measures: SB scaled 𝜒2(314) = 
454.163 (p < 0.001), robust CFI = 0.949, robust TLI = 0.938, RMSEA = 0.050 (90% CI: [0.039, 0.060]), 
and SRMR = 0.072. Next, we performed a fully constrained structural model in which all structural 
parameters (regression coefficients) were set to be equal across groups. This model yielded worse 
global fit measures: SB scaled 𝜒2(328) = 490.396, p < .001, robust CFI = .941, robust TLI = .932, 
RMSEA = .051 (90% CI: [.042, .062]), and SRMR = .083. More importantly, the scaled chi-square 
difference test showed that the fully constrained structural model was significantly worse than the 
“totally free” one: ∆𝜒2(14) = 37.63, p < .001. Therefore, we focused on the “totally free” SEM 
model to test our hypotheses. As shown in Figure 4, this model explained about 65% of the variance 
in the behavioral intentions of participants in both groups. The details of model estimates are 
shown in Appendix 2. 
 
[ADD FIGURE 4 HERE] 
 
 
Hypothesis Testing 
Shopping practices. Our results reveal that while the effect of shopping practices on attitudinal 
beliefs was positive but non-significant for early adopters (β = 0.026, n.s.), it was negative and 
significant for non-adopters (β = -0.167, p = 0.033). Therefore, H1a was partly supported. The 
effects of shopping practices on behavioral control however were not significant for both early 
adopters (β = -0.069, n.s.) and non-adopters (β = 0.083, n.s.), meaning that H1b was not supported. 
In contrast, shopping practices had a positive, significant direct effect on behavioral intentions for 
early adopters (β = 0.102, p = 0.049), while it was negative and marginally significant for non-
adopters (β = -0.120, p = 0.066), supporting H1c.  
Household practices. We found that household practices only had a significant and negative 
effect on non-adopters’ behavioral control (β = -0.591, p = 0.001), while all other effects of this 
variable were non-significant. Therefore, only H2b was partly supported, while H2a and H2c were 
not supported.  
Social practices. Similarly, social practices also had only one marginally significant (negative) 
effect on early adopters’ attitudinal beliefs (β = -0.122, p = 0.058), while all other effects of this 
variable were non-significant. Therefore, while the data partly supported H3a, it did not support 
H3b.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
465 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
General environmental practices. We reveal significant and positive effects of general 
environmental practices on attitudinal beliefs for both early adopters (β = 0.308, p < 0.001) and 
non-adopters (β = 0.475, p < 0.001). Similarly, its effect on behavioral control was also positive and 
significant in both groups (early adopters: β = 0.274, p = 0.068; non-adopters: β = 0.504, p = 0.003). 
Therefore, both H4a and H4b were supported. The effect of general environmental practices on 
behavioral intentions was also positive and marginally significant for non-adopters (β = 0.182, p = 
0.068), but was not significant for early adopters (β = 0.078, n.s.). Hence, H4c was only partly 
supported.   
Behavioral control. The effects of behavioral control on behavioral intentions were positive and 
significant for both early adopters (β = 0.092, p = 0.006) and non-adopters (β = 0.103, p = 0.042), 
supporting H5.  
Social norms. The effects of social norms on behavioral intentions were however nonsignificant 
for both early adopters (β = -0.029, n.s.) and non-adopters (β = 0.053, n.s.). Thus, the findings did 
not provide support for H6.  
Table 4 summarizes the results of all our hypothesis tests.  
 
[ADD TABLE 4 HERE] 
Discussion 
For early adopters, shopping practices had a significant direct effect on behavioral intentions. 
Moreover, social practices (β = -0.180**, 95% CI = [-0.522, -0.009]) and general environmental 
practices (β = 0.349***, 99% CI = [0.102, 0.731]) had significant indirect effects on behavioral 
intentions through attitudinal beliefs, while only general environmental practices (β = 0.037*, 90% 
CI = [0.0003, 0.089]) had a marginally significant indirect effect on behavioral intentions through 
behavioral control.14 In contrast, for non-adopters, shopping practices had a marginally significant 
negative direct effect on behavioral intentions, while the direct effect of general environmental 
practices was marginally significant and positive. Similarly, only shopping practices (β = -0.164*, 
90% CI = [-0.461, -0.016]) and general environmental practices (β = 0.362***, 99% CI = [0.139, 
0.828]) had significant indirect effects on behavioral intentions through attitudinal beliefs. In 
addition, general environmental practices (β = 0.051**, 95% CI = [0.010, 0.152]) and household 
practices (β = -0.060*, 90% CI = [-0.191, -0.010]) had significant indirect effects on intentions 
through behavioral control.  
The fact that shopping practices had a positive effect on behavioral intentions for those who already 
have adopted is interesting, and in contrast to non-adopters. Whereas early adopters seemingly 
have integrated these new shopping habits into their daily life to the extent that it positively drives 
behavioral intentions, the same model path was negative for non-users. Hence, and as mentioned 
above, non-users likely perceive ZW shopping practices as cumbersome and unfamiliar, and this is 
reflected in these practices as a negative antecedent of behavioral intentions. For early adopters, 
social practices had an indirect (via attitudinal beliefs) negative effects on behavioral intentions. 
Although speculative at this point, this finding may suggest that ZW shoppers have a hard time 
onboarding the rest of their household to the ZW practices pertaining to food storage, preparation 
 
14 The significance of indirect effects was evaluated using the bootstrap method with 10,000 samples and bias-
corrected, accelerated confidence intervals; * p < .10, ** p < .05, *** p < .01;  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
466 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
and cooking. Evidently, for early adopters, there is something pertaining to social practices that 
leads to a negative influence on intentions for continued ZW consumption.   
 
General Discussion 
 
Discussion of Findings 
The nature and characteristics of ZW shopping solutions are likely to change over time. Similarly, 
consumer preferences also gradually evolve, and environmental concerns will perhaps shape 
consumer behavior and practices more in the future. Through the lens of practice theory (Warde, 
2005), our study sheds light on three dimensions of green consumer practices that are insufficiently 
captured in existing models of adoption. First, we have expanded on the object of adoption, by 
conceptualizing green consumer practices along four distinct, but related dimensions: shopping 
practices, household practices, social practices, and general environmental practices. Second, we 
have gone beyond an understanding of the subject of adoption, i.e. “the adopter”, as an individual. 
Instead, we suggest that adoption should be understood as taking place in a web of related actors 
that also includes social practices. Finally, we have investigated the dynamic aspect of such 
adoption by comparing two groups of consumers: early adopters of ZW and non-adopters, who 
display different patterns in their perceptions and assessments of ZW practices. 
Our study demonstrates that a consumer practice-perspective is a useful approach to 
understanding adoption of green innovations like ZW shopping. Pre-study 1 revealed barriers and 
drivers related to various aspects of the adoption process. It showed that consumers had concerns 
related to the influence of new shopping practices on the broader set of actors in the household. 
Moreover, they believed that for ZW solutions to be attractive, a broader set of solutions would 
have to be available and adopted in concert. Participants thus viewed ZW as something to 
potentially adopt in the future, when such solutions were available. Pre-study 2 suggested that ZW 
is still a relatively niche phenomenon, with a dedicated subculture of people embracing the lifestyle. 
Moreover, the dedicated ZW shoppers had embraced new practices, but also an overarching 
mindset that led them to change the nature of their shopping and household practices.  
The two field surveys in our main study lent empirical support to the proposed green practice 
adoption model. Multi-group invariance testing showed that the parameters of our measurement 
model were equivalent across the two groups: early adopters and non-adopters. Hence, our 
measurement model is valid, and that the structural model is replicable across settings (Chin et al., 
2014). We thus showed that consumers distinguish between a set of various practices in relation to 
ZW shopping, and that these practices influence the intention to (continue to) use ZW, either 
directly, or indirectly through attitudinal beliefs about ZW and/or behavioral control.  
 
Theoretical Contributions 
We have argued that established adoption models should be updated with a consumer practice 
perspective. Practice theory posits that consumer behavior comprises a set of interlinked routinized 
activities (Warde, 2005). Applying this perspective on adoption of sustainable innovations, we 
contend that the object of adoptions should be understood as the set of practices carried out by 
the consumer, rather than a single product or service. Accordingly, we have conceptualized and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
467 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
tested an extended TPB model, showing how consumer practices involved in a green innovation 
(ZW shopping) influence consumers’ behavioral intentions towards the innovation. Therefore, a key 
theoretical contribution of our paper is to provide a new perspective on how the object of 
innovation should be understood. Although prior research has conceptually established the idea of 
practices as a way of understanding green consumer behavior (Hargreaves, 2011; Røpke, 2009), 
empirical research on the role of consumer practices in adoption processes is lacking. Perera, Auger 
and Klein (2018) criticized traditional models for not being able to predict behavior due to the 
attitude-behavior gap, and instead advocated the need for in-depth analyses of consumer practices. 
We have bridged the practice perspective with existing adoption models and adhere to the criticism 
of existing models, but we argue that established models, such as the TPB, are applicable to the 
extent that we are able to integrate the practice perspective.  
Practice theory posits that practices are social and dynamic processes. We contribute to adoption 
theory by showing that the adoption of green practices involves several actors (i.e. is a social 
process) and varies across stages in the adoption process (i.e. is dynamic). Many adoption decisions 
influence the lives of other members of the household and adoption models should explicitly 
consider this social aspect. The findings in the main study on negative (indirect) influences of 
perceived changes in social practices on adoption intentions among both early adopters and non-
adopters clearly point to the importance of social networks in adoption decisions. Our study also 
brings support to the idea that adoption of green practices is likely to be a function of time. Our 
findings for the two distinct groups, representing different stages of the adoption process (non-
adoption and early adoption), support the idea that adoption should be regarded as a process that 
occurs and changes over time. Although a longitudinal design would be a proper test of the dynamic 
function of adoption, the difference between the two groups in our research resembles different 
stages in an adoption process. These cross-group analyses also respond to Pietzsch et al.’s (2017) 
for a richer understanding of drivers of ZW among different consumer groups, and Bocken and 
Allwood’s (2012) call for consumer insights that can enable business models with lower footprint in 
consumer goods and beyond. 
 
Managerial Implications 
Our study has practical implications for companies that aim to introduce ZW solutions for consumer 
goods and other products, as well as for governments and regulatory bodies that aim to facilitate 
such consumer practices. Anecdotal evidence suggests that retail stores are increasingly 
experimenting with refill-based and packaging-free shopping. For instance, the “nude food” 
packaging-free movement has been embraced by retailers on several continents. The scalability of 
such solutions requires insight into factors that determine their adoption. Our study has several 
implications for such managerial decisions. 
First, knowledge about the sets of practices associated with ZW shopping and the drivers and 
barriers related to them can inform the design of ZW solutions. Moreover, the varying degrees to 
which early adopters and non-adopters perceive changes in such practices to be burdensome 
suggest that there is a need for differentiated product and service design to stimulate ZW 
consumption. Also, the communication of such solutions should likely be tailored to address the 
specific concerns of various segments. For instance; our studies reveal that shopping practices 
negatively influence behavioral intentions for non-adopters, but are in fact a positive driver for early 
adopters. Hence, illustrating and communicating to non-adopters the ease and enjoyment of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
468 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
shopping practices (as experienced by early adopters) may be one way of overcoming barriers to 
adopt for this segment.   
 Second, our findings suggest that complete and standardized solutions across product categories 
are likely to increase the inclination of consumers to adopt ZW practices. This implies that larger-
scale ZW solutions integrated in traditional retail stores can be fruitful, given that they are designed 
in a manner that takes the barriers adopted in this paper seriously. Importantly, our findings suggest 
that the embracing of new practices related to ZW shopping require lifestyle changes at many 
levels. Since such lifestyle changes are less likely for less enthusiastic shoppers, our findings suggest 
that the mainstream adoption of ZW would require innovation in ZW solutions, enabling 
technologies and the ecosystem of products and services that could reduce the burden on the 
“ordinary” consumer. Finally, from a government and regulatory perspective, various incentives 
can be considered in order to lessen the burden on consumers who adopt ZW shopping. Examples 
are tax breaks of the sort that are offered in some countries for services related to the repair of 
products. 
 
Limitations and Avenues for Future Research 
Our study demonstrates that consumer practices can be integrated into the TPB as antecedents of 
attitudinal beliefs about a green innovation, perceived behavioral control, and intention to use the 
green innovation in the future. We have specifically studied consumer practices in relation to ZW 
shopping. Although we have tried to cover the most relevant practices related to this type of 
adoption, as informed by our qualitative studies, we recognize that other practices that belong to 
a broader nexus of behaviors could have been included. According to practice theory, a practice 
consists of a large variety of interconnected elements, such as bodily activities, mental activities, 
know-how, and emotional states (Warde, 2005). Taking this broad perspective of practices, a 
practice-based adoption model can be expanded to include a larger variety of practices than the 
ones proposed in our research. We encourage future research to develop practice-based adoption 
models with more generic dimensions of practices that can be applied to all kinds of innovations.   
In our study, we investigated the dynamic aspect of adoption by comparing two groups of 
consumers who correspond with different stages of the adoption process. Future studies would 
benefit from longitudinal research designs through which the dynamic dimension can be 
investigated more properly. With regards to the subject of adoption, we encourage researchers to 
investigate the social processes involved in adoption processes. The finding that practices, attitudes 
and behaviors of other actors (here: members of the household) significantly influences the 
adoption process, suggests that institutional theory and theories of adoption at the firm level may 
provide valuable insight for understanding adoption at the consumer level as well. 
 
 
References 
 
Aarts, H., Verplanken, B. & Van Knippenberg, A. (1998). Predicting Behavior From Actions in the Past: 
Repeated Decision Making or a Matter of Habit? Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 28(15), 
1355-1974.  
Ajzen, I. (1991). The theory of planned behavior. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision 
Processes, 
50(2), 179-211. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
469 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Aydinliyim, T., & Pangburn, M. S. (2012). Reducing packaging waste and cost via consumer 
price 
discounts. Decision Sciences, 43(6), 1063-1089. 
Bagozzi, R. P., Davis, F. D., & Warshaw, P. R. (1992). Development and test of a theory of technological 
learning and usage. Human Relations, 45(7), 659-686. 
Bagozzi, R. P., & Yi, Y. (1991). Multi-trait-Multimethod Matrices in Consumer Research. Journal of 
Consumer Research, 17(4), 426-439. 
Bagozzi, R. P., & Yi, Y. (2012). Specification, evaluation, and interpretation of structural equation models. 
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 40(1), 8-34. 
Bardhi, F., & Eckhardt, G. M. (2012). Access-based consumption: The case of car sharing. Journal of 
Consumer Research, 39(4), 881-898. 
Beitzen-Heineke, E. F., Balta-Ozkan, N., & Reefke, H. (2017). The prospects of zero-packaging 
grocery 
stores to improve the social and environmental impacts of the food supply chain. 
Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 140, 1528-1541. 
Belk, R. (2014). You are what you can access: Sharing and collaborative consumption online. 
Journal of 
Business Research, 67(8), 1595-1600. 
Bem, D.J. (1967). Self-perception: An alternative interpretation of cognitive dissonance  
phenomena. Psychological Review, 74(3), 183-200.  
Blut, M., Wang, C., & Schoefer, K. (2016). Factors influencing the acceptance of self-service
 
technologies: A meta-analysis. Journal of Service Research, 19(4), 396-416. 
Bocken, N. M., & Allwood, J. M. (2012). Strategies to reduce the carbon footprint of consumer 
goods by 
influencing stakeholders. Journal of Cleaner Production, (35), 118-129. 
Bolton, L. E., & Alba, J. W. (2012). When less is more: Consumer aversion to unused utility. 
Journal of 
Consumer Psychology, 22(3), 369-383. 
Cadario, R., & Chandon, P. (2018). Which Healthy Eating Nudges Work Best? A Meta-Analysis 
of Field 
Experiments. Marketing Science (forthcoming). 
Carberry, E. J., Bharati, P., Levy, D. L., & Chaudhury, A. (2019). Social movements as catalysts 
for 
corporate social innovation: Environmental activism and the adoption of green information 
systems. Business & Society, 58(5), 1083-1127. 
Cenamor, J., Usero, B., & Fernández, Z. (2013). The role of complementary products on platform adoption: 
Evidence from the video console market. Technovation, 33(12), 405 
416. 
Chaouali, W., Souiden, N., & Ladhari, R. (2017). Explaining adoption of mobile banking with
 
the theory of trying, general self-confidence, and cynicism. Journal of Retailing and
 
Consumer Services, 35, 57-67. 
Chin, W. W., Mills, A. M., Steel, D. J., & Schwarz, A. (2014, May). Multi-group invariance testing: 
An illustrative comparison of PLS permutation and covariance-based SEM 
invariance analysis. 
In International Conference on Partial Least Squares and Related 
Methods. Cham: Springer, 
pp. 267-284. 
Davis, F. D., Bagozzi, R. P., & Warshaw, P. R. (1989). User acceptance of computer technology: 
a 
comparison of two theoretical models. Management Science, 35(8), 982-1003. 
Døskeland, T., & Pedersen, L. J. T. (2019). Does Wealth Matter for Responsible Investment?
 
Experimental Evidence on the Weighing of Financial and Moral Arguments. Business &
 
Society, https://doi.org/10.1177%2F0007650319826231. 
Frambach, R. T., & Schillewaert, N. (2002). Organizational innovation adoption: A multi-level
 
framework of determinants and opportunities for future research. Journal of Business
 
Research, 55(2), 163-176. 
Grønhøj, A. (2006). Communication about consumption: a family process perspective on 'green' consumer 
practices. Journal of Consumer Behaviour, 5(6), 491-503. doi:10.1002/cb.198 
Gustavo Jr, J. U., Pereira, G. M., Bond, A. J., Viegas, C. V., & Borchardt, M. (2018). Drivers,
 
opportunities and barriers for a retailer in the pursuit of more sustainable packaging
 
redesign. Journal of Cleaner Production, 187, 18-28. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
470 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Hair, J. F., Black, W. C., Babin, B. J., & Anderson, R. E. (2010). Multivariate Data Analysis: A 
global 
perspective (Seventh ed.). Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Pearson Education. 
Hamari, J., Sjöklint, M., & Ukkonen, A. (2016). The sharing economy: Why people participate 
in 
collaborative consumption. Journal of the Association for Information Science and
 
Technology, 67(9), 2047-2059. 
Hu, L.-t., & Bentler, P. M. (1998). Fit Indices in Covariance Structural Equation Modeling: Sensitivity to 
Underparameterized Model Misspecification. Psychological Methods, 3, 
424-453. 
Hu, L.-t., & Bentler, P. M. (1999). Cutoff Criteria for Fit Indexes in Covariance Structure 
Analysis:  
Conventional Criteria versus New Alternatives. Structural Equation 
Modeling, 6, 1-55. 
Hutter, K., Hoffmann, S., & Mai, R. (2016). Carrotmob:A Win–Win–Win Approach to Creating Benefits for 
Consumers, Business, and Society at Large. Business & Society, 55(7), 1059-1077. 
Jackson, T. (2005). Live better by consuming less?: is there a “double dividend” in sustainable
 
consumption? Journal of Industrial Ecology, 9(1‐2), 19-36. 
Jaeger-Erben, M., Rückert-John, J., & Schäfer, M. (2015). Sustainable consumption through 
social 
innovation: a typology of innovations for sustainable consumption practices. 
Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 108, 784-798. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.07.042 
Jansson, J., Nordlund, A., & Westin, K. (2017). Examining drivers of sustainable consumption: 
The 
influence of norms and opinion leadership on electric vehicle adoption in Sweden. 
Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 154, 176-187. 
Kalafatis, S. P., Pollard, M., East, R., & Tsogas, M. H. (1999). Green marketing and Ajzen’s theory of planned 
behaviour: a cross-market examination. Journal of Consumer Marketing, 16(5), 441-460. 
Kline, R. B. (2010). Principles and Practice of Structural Equation Modeling (3rd ed.). New York: The Guilford 
Press. 
Kristensson, P., Pedersen, P. E. and Thorbjørnsen, H.  (forthcoming). New Perspectives on Consumer 
Adoption and Diffusion of Innovations. Journal of Business Research. 
Lim, W. M. (2017). Inside the sustainable consumption theoretical toolbox: Critical concepts for
 
sustainability, consumption, and marketing. Journal of Business Research, 78, 69-80. 
Lorenzen, J. A. (2012). Going Green: The process of lifestyle change. Sociological Forum, 27(1), 94-
116.  
Martin, D., Gustafsson, A., & Choi, S. (2016). Service innovation, renewal, and 
adoption/rejection in 
dynamic global contexts. Journal of Business Research, 69(7), 2397-2400. 
Morgan, D. L. (1996). Focus groups. Annual Review of Sociology, 22(1), 129-152. 
Morone, P., & Navia, R. (2016). New consumption and production models for a circular economy. Waste 
Management & Research, 34(6), 489–490. 
Nash, N., Whitmarsh, L., Capstick, S., Hargreaves, T., Poortinga, W., Thomas, G., . . . Xenias, D. (2017). 
Climate-relevant behavioral spillover and the potential contribution of social practice theory. 
WIREs Climate Change, 8(6) 
Ozaki, R. (2011). Adopting sustainable innovation: what makes consumers sign up to green
 
electricity? Business Strategy and the Environment, 20(1), 1-17. 
Peattie, K. (2010). Green consumption: behavior and norms. Annual Review of Environment and
 
Resources, 35, 195-228. 
Perera, C., Auger, P., & Klein, J. (2018). Green Consumption Practices Among Young 
Environmentalists: 
A Practice Theory Perspective. Journal of Business Ethics, 152(3), 
843-864.  
Phipps, M., & Ozanne, J. L. (2017). Routines disrupted: Reestablishing security through practice
 
alignment. Journal of Consumer Research, 44(2), 361-380. 
Pietzsch, N., Ribeiro, J. L. D., & de Medeiros, J. F. (2017). Benefits, challenges and critical factors of success 
for Zero Waste: A systematic literature review. Waste Management, 67, 324-353. 
Purtik, H., & Arenas, D. (2019). Embedding Social Innovation: Shaping Societal Norms and 
Behaviors 
Throughout the Innovation Process. Business & Society, 58(5), 963–1002.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
471 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Reckwitz, A. (2002). Toward a Theory of Social Practices: A Development in Culturalist 
Theorizing. 
European Journal of Social Theory, 5(2), p. 243, 21 pages 
Rosseel, Y. (2012). lavaan: An R Package for Structural Equation Modeling. Journal of 
Statistical 
Software, 48(2), 1-36. 
Røpke, I. (2009). Theories of practice — New inspiration for ecological economic studies on
 
consumption. Ecological Economics, 68(10), 2490-2497. 
Satorra, A., & Bentler, P. M. (2001). A Scaled Difference Chi-square Test Statistic for Moment 
Structure 
Analysis. Psychometrika, 66(4), 507-514. 
Schaltegger, S., & Wagner, M. (2011). Sustainable entrepreneurship and sustainability 
innovation: 
categories and interactions. Business Strategy and the Environment, 20(4), 
222-237. 
Schatzki, T. R. (1996). Social Practices: A Wittgensteinian Approach to Human Activity and the 
Social. 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 
Schoenau, M., & Müller, M. (2017). What affects our urban travel behavior? A GPS-based 
evaluation 
of internal and external determinants of sustainable mobility in Stuttgart. 
Transportation 
Research Part F: Traffic Psychology and Behaviour, 48, 61-73. 
Scott, W. R. (2008). Institutions and organizations: Ideas and interests. London: Sage. 
Shama, A. (1985). The voluntary simplicity consumer. Journal of Consumer Marketing, 2(4), 
57-63. 
Sharma, P. (2010). Measuring personal cultural orientations: scale development and validation. Journal of 
the Academy of Marketing Science, 38(6), 787-806. 
Shove, E. (2003). Converging Conventions of Comfort, Cleanliness and Convenience. Journal of 
Consumer 
Policy, 26(4), 395-418. 
Shukla, P., & Purani, K. (2012). Comparing the importance of luxury value perceptions in cross 
national 
contexts. Journal of Business Research, 65(10), 1417-1424. 
Steenkamp, J.-B. E. M., & Baumgartner, H. (1998). Assessing Measurement Invariance in Cross-National 
Consumer Research. Journal of Consumer Research, 25(1), 78-107. 
Steiner, M., Wiegand, N., Eggert, A., & Backhaus, K. (2016). Platform adoption in system markets: The roles 
of preference heterogeneity and consumer expectations. International Journal of Research in 
Marketing, 33(2), 276-296. 
Stewart, D. W., & Shamdasani, P. N. (2014). Focus groups: Theory and practice (Vol. 20). London: Sage 
Publications. 
Stryja, C., & Satzger, G. (2018). Try Before You Buy: How to Design Information Systems to 
Enhance 
Consumer Willingness to Test Sustainable Innovations. Journal of Technology 
Management & 
Innovation, 13(1), 19-26. 
Taylor, S., & Todd, P. (1997). Understanding the determinants of consumer composting behavior 1. Journal 
of Applied Social Psychology, 27(7), 602-628. 
Thorbjørnsen, H., Pedersen, P. E., & Nysveen, H. (2007). “This is who I am”: Identity 
expressiveness and 
the theory of planned behavior. Psychology & Marketing, 24(9), 763 
785. 
Thorbjørnsen, H., Pedersen, P. E., & Nysveen, H. (2009). Categorizing networked services: The 
role of 
intrinsic-, user network-and complement network attributes. European Journal of
 
Marketing, 43(3/4), 371-397. 
Toft, M. B., & Thøgersen, J. (2015). Exploring private consumers’ willingness to adopt Smart 
Grid 
technology. International Journal of Consumer Studies, 39(6), 648-660. 
Tornatzky, L.G., & Fleischer, M. (1990). The deployment of technology. In L.G. Tornatzky, J.D. 
Eveland & 
M. Fleischer (Eds.), The Process of Technological Innovation. Lexington, MA: Lexington Books. 
Varadarajan, R. (2017). Innovating for sustainability: a framework for sustainable innovations 
and a 
model of sustainable innovations orientation. Journal of the Academy of Marketing 
Science, 
45(1), 14-36. 
Venkatesh, V., Thong, J. Y., & Xu, X. (2012). Consumer acceptance and use of information
 
technology: extending the unified theory of acceptance and use of technology. MIS
 
Quarterly, 157-178. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
472 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Vermeir, I., & Verbeke, W. (2006). Sustainable food consumption: Exploring the consumer 
“attitude–
behavioral intention” gap. Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, 
19(2), 169-194. 
Vermeir, I., & Verbeke, W. (2008). Sustainable food consumption among young adults in Belgium: Theory of 
planned behaviour and the role of confidence and values. Ecological 
Economics, 64(3), 542-553. 
Verplanken, B., & Wood, W. (2006). Interventions to break and create consumer habits. Journal of Public 
Policy & Marketing, 25(1), 90-103. 
Wang, Z., Zhang, B., & Li, G. (2014). Determinants of energy-saving behavioral intention among residents in 
Beijing: Extending the theory of planned behavior. Journal of Renewable and Sustainable Energy, 
6(5), 053127. 
Warde, A. (2005). Consumption and Theories of Practice. Journal of Consumer Culture, 5(2), 
131-153. 
Wever, R., & Vogtländer, J. (2013). Eco‐efficient value creation: an alternative perspective on 
packaging 
and sustainability. Packaging Technology and Science, 26(4), 229-248. 
Wikström, F., Williams, H., Verghese, K., & Clune, S. (2014). The influence of packaging attributes on 
consumer behaviour in food-packaging life cycle assessment studies-a neglected topic. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 73, 100-108. 
Zaman, A. U. (2015). A comprehensive review of the development of zero waste management: 
lessons 
learned and guidelines. Journal of Cleaner Production, 91, 12-25. 
Xie, C., Bagozzi, R. P., & Grønhaug, K. (2015). The role of moral emotions and individual differences in 
consumer responses to corporate green and non-green actions. Journal of the Academy of 
Marketing Science, 43(3), 333-356. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
473 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 1: Measures used in the study 
 
Variable 
 
Perceived changes in shopping practices (ShP) (1 = to a very small extent, 7 = to a very large 
extent) 
ShP1 How much I buy 
ShP2 How often I shop 
ShP3 How many different stores I shop in  
 
Perceived changes in household practices (HP) (1 = to a very small extent, 7 = to a very large 
extent) 
HP1 The way I store food products at home 
HP2 The way I cook 
HP3 What types of ingredients I use 
HP4 How much food I make “from scratch” 
 
Perceived changes in social practices (SoP) (1 = to a very small extent, 7 = to a very large extent) 
SoP1 Who in my household will do the shopping 
SoP2 What tasks the different members of my household have with regard to shopping, cooking, 
etc. 
SoP3 Who in the household will do the cooking 
 
Perceived changes in general environmental practices (OEP) (1 = to a very small extent, 7 = to a 
very large extent) 
GEP1 How I show my environmental commitment to others 
GEP2 How likely I am to recycle products and other waste 
GEP3 How eco-friendly (non-food) products I buy 
 
Attitudinal beliefs (1 = completely disagree, 7 = completely agree) 
AB1 Packaging-free shopping is beneficial for the environment 
AB3 I generally see many benefits with packaging-free shopping 
 
Behavioral Control (BC) (1 = completely disagree, 7 = completely agree) 
I would not have had any trouble understanding how packaging-free shopping works 
 
Social Norm (1 = completely disagree, 7 = completely agree) 
I care about what others think about packaging-free shopping 
 
Behavioral Intentions (BI) (1 = completely disagree, 7 = completely agree) 
BI1 I am going to shop packaging-free going forward 
BI2 When grocery stores offer packaging-free solutions, I will choose such solutions rather than 
products with packaging 
BI3 I am more likely to shop packaging-free than most others 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
474 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 2: Results of invariance test 
 
Model 
RMSEA 
CFI 
AIC 
BIC 
𝜒2(𝑑𝑓) 
∆𝜒2(𝑑𝑓) 
Configural model 
.047 
.964 
22648 
23198 
335.6 (238) 
 
Metric model 
.048 
.961 
22646 
23149 
354.6 (250) 
19.0 (12) 
Scalar model 
.060 
.936 
22706 
23162 
435.3 (262) 
80.7*** (12) 
Note: * p < .05, ** p <. 01, *** p < .001 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
475 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 3: Factor loadings, reliability, validity, and fit measures 
 
Construct 
Early adopter 
Non-adopter 
FLa 
CRb 
AVEc 
FLa 
CRb 
AVEc 
Shopping practices (ShP) 
 
.78 
.54 
 
.85 
.65 
ShP1 
.785 
 
 
.787 
 
 
ShP2 
.783 
 
 
.875 
 
 
ShP3 
.621 
 
 
.744 
 
 
Household practices (HP) 
 
.82 
.54 
 
.88 
.65 
HP1 
.556 
 
 
.756 
 
 
HP2 
.780 
 
 
.800 
 
 
HP3 
.805 
 
 
.833 
 
 
HP4 
.763 
 
 
.845 
 
 
Social practices (SoP) 
 
.89 
.72 
 
.87 
.69 
SoP1 
.831 
 
 
.728 
 
 
SoP2 
.875 
 
 
.896 
 
 
SoP3 
.839 
 
 
.864 
 
 
General environmental practices (GEP)  
.79 
.55 
 
.81 
.59 
GEP1 
.599 
 
 
.729 
 
 
GEP2 
.819 
 
 
.807 
 
 
GEP3 
.795 
 
 
.758 
 
 
Attitudinal beliefs (AB) 
 
.69 
.52 
 
.75 
.61 
AB1 
.656 
 
 
.679 
 
 
AB2 
.786 
 
 
.868 
 
 
Behavioral intentions (BI) 
 
.77 
.53 
 
.87 
.69 
BI1 
.788 
 
 
.817 
 
 
BI2 
.812 
 
 
.872 
 
 
BI3 
.570 
 
 
.803 
 
 
a FL: Standardized factor loading; b CR: Composite reliability; c AVE: Average variance extracted.  
  
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
476 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 3: Summary of hypothesis testing 
Hypothesis 
Path 
Direction 
Supported? 
Early adopter 
Non-adopter 
 
H1a 
ShP → AB 
+ 
- 
Partly 
H1b 
ShP → BC 
+ 
- 
No 
H1c 
ShP → BI 
+ 
- 
Yes 
H2a 
HP → AB 
+ 
- 
No 
H2b 
HP → BC 
+ 
- 
Partly 
H2c 
HP → BI 
+ 
- 
No 
H3a 
SoP → AB 
- 
- 
Partly 
H3b 
SoP → BI 
- 
- 
No 
H4a 
GEP → AB 
+ 
+ 
Yes 
H4b 
GEP → BC 
+ 
+ 
Yes 
H4c 
GEP → BI 
+ 
+ 
Partly 
H5 
BC → BI 
+ 
+ 
Yes 
H6 
Social norms → BI 
+ 
+ 
No 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
477 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 1: Conceptual model 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Behavioral Intentions 
Social Norm 
Attitudinal 
Beliefs 
Behavioral 
Control 
Consumption 
Practices 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
478 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 2: Four distribution solutions for reduced plastic packaging 
 
 
Figure 3: Revised conceptual model 
 
 
 
 
Behavioral Intentions
Attitudinal 
Beliefs
Behavioral 
Control
Shopping 
practices
Household 
practices
General 
environmental 
practices
Social practices
Social Norm

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
479 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 4: Estimation Results for “Totally Free” Structural Model 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Behavioral Intentions
Attitudinal 
Beliefs
Behavioral 
Control
Shopping 
practices
Household 
practices
General 
environmental 
practices
Social practices
Social Norm
.76***
.10**
.09***
.34***
-.12*
.27*
Early Adopter
Behavioral Intentions
Attitudinal 
Beliefs
Behavioral 
Control
Shopping 
practices
Household 
practices
General 
environmental 
practices
Social practices
Social Norm
.77***
.10**
.50***
Non-Adopter
.46***
-.12*
.18*
-.17**
-.59***

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
480 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Appendix 1: Correlation matrix between latent constructs (merged dataset) 
 
 
ShP 
HP 
SoP 
GEP 
AB 
BI 
ShP 
0.768 
0.597 
0.476 
0.368 
0.070 
0.123 
HP 
0.570 (0.054) 
0.775 
0.649 
0.567 
0.128 
0.185 
SoP 
0.465 (0.060) 
0.655 (0.045) 
0.849 
0.482 
0.080 
0.137 
GEP 
0.338 (0.066) 
0.570 (0.057) 
0.473 (0.061) 
0.775 
0.450 
0.546 
AB 
-0.038 (0.070) 
0.092 (0.064) 
0.013 (0.066) 
0.423 (0.054) 
0.768 
0.814 
BI 
0.045 (0.071) 
0.161 (0.060) 
0.112 (0.064) 
0.492 (0.055) 
0.787 (0.041) 
0.819 
Note: Diagonal and bold elements are the square roots of the AVE;  
Below the diagonal elements are the correlations between the constructs (standard errors are in brackets). Above the diagonal elements 
are the HTMT values (in italics). 
 
 
Appendix 2: Parameter Estimates on Structural Paths 
 
Early Adopters 
  
  
  
  
Dependent Variable 
Independent Variable 
β 
SE 
t-value 
Behavioral intentions 
Attitudinal beliefs 
.762*** 
.140 
5.452 
Behavioral control 
.092*** 
.033 
2.741 
Shopping practices 
.102** 
.052 
1.972 
Household practices 
-.015 
.071 
-.215 
Social practices 
-.026 
.062 
-.423 
General environmental practices  
.078 
.083 
.944 
Social norms  
-.029 
.025 
-1.127 
R2 
.646 
  
  
  
  
Attitudinal beliefs 
Shopping practices 
.026 
.081 
.316 
Household practices 
-.017 
.117 
-.149 
Social practices 
-.122* 
.065 
-1.892 
General environmental practices  
.341*** 
.101 
3.371 
R2 
.214 
  
  
  
  
Behavioral control 
Shopping practices 
-.069 
.131 
-.529 
Household practices 
.023 
.193 
.118 
General environmental practices  
.274* 
.150 
1.825 
R2 
.045 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Non-Adopters 
  
  
  
  
Dependent Variable 
Independent Variable 
β 
SE 
t-value 
Behavioral intentions 
Attitudinal beliefs 
.770*** 
.155 
4.957 
Behavioral control 
.103** 
.051 
2.036 
Shopping practices 
-.120* 
.065 
-1.837 
Household practices 
-.107 
.094 
-1.130 
Social practices 
.060 
.095 
.631 
General environmental practices  
.182* 
.100 
1.828 
Social norms  
.053 
.050 
1.073 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
481 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
R2 
.654 
  
  
  
  
Attitudinal beliefs 
Shopping practices 
-.167** 
.078 
-2.133 
Household practices 
-.120 
.136 
-.886 
Social practices 
-.086 
.113 
-.759 
General environmental practices  
.457*** 
.124 
3.839 
R2 
.265 
  
  
  
  
Behavioral control 
Shopping practices 
.083 
.107 
.773 
Household practices 
-.591*** 
.175 
-3.373 
General environmental practices  
.504*** 
.171 
2.957 
R2 
.144 
Note: Table reports standardized coefficients. * p < .1; ** p < .05; *** p < .01. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
482 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
From niches to socio-technical 
regimes: exploring factors 
influencing business model 
innovation towards sustainable 
mobility transitions  
 
João Valsecchi Ribeiro de Souza1*, Roberto Marx¹, Adriana Marotti 
de Mello2, Vincent Frigant3  
1 University of São Paulo, School of Engineering, Department of 
Production Engineering, Brazil; 2 University of São Paulo, School of 
Economics, Business Administration and Accounting, Brazil; 3 
University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux School of Economics (BxSE, UMR 
CNRS 6060), France. 
*joao.valsecchi.souza@usp.br  
Abstract 
Drawing on the idea that business model innovation (BMI) may impact sustainable transitions, 
driving changes in the current socio-technical regimes, this research aims to understand which 
factors influence the BMI process from niches to socio-technical regimes. Although the BMI process 
may influence sustainable transitions, few studies have focused on understanding which factors 
influence the BMI process to be integrated into socio-technical regimes and foster changes. 
Therefore, multiple case-based research was adopted through an empirical analysis among mobility 
players. The research results were organized according to the factors influencing the stabilization 
process of new business models at the firm and meso-levels of the socio-technical regime. As 
practical implications, the findings assist both policymakers and practitioners in understanding 
what factors may influence BMI towards sustainable transitions in the mobility field.  
Keywords  
Business model innovation, sustainable business models, sustainable transitions, emergent 
countries, China, Brazil 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
483 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Introduction 
Research at the intersection of business models and societal transitions is growing due to the 
primary importance of sustainable development for society. Enriching the body of knowledge that 
brings these approaches closer is critical to this discussion, and it is just starting (Bidmon and Knab, 
2018).  
In the context of socio-technical transitions to sustainability and, more precisely, under the lens of 
the multilevel perspective (MLP) – landscape, regime, and niches - business model innovation (BMI) 
may play different roles and influence different dynamics in the socio-technical systems (Bidmon 
and Knab, 2018; Sarasini and Linder, 2018). 
New business models could act as drivers for transitions in the regime, breaking the rules in which 
current regimes operate and modifying them. Moreover, in the niches, they can act as drivers for 
sustainable transitions that are not necessarily anchored in new technologies, influencing a new 
regime that does not depend on technological innovation through new services propositions 
(Bidmon and Knab, 2018). Therefore, BMI may play both an enabler and an obstacle role in the 
changes process for new socio-technical mobility regimes. 
Once a business model is marketed and anchored in a value proposition not related to innovative 
technology, it is no longer situated at the niche level within a protected and controlled space where 
radical innovations are fostered (Geels, 2012). Based on this idea, BMI is a process that links the 
niche and regime levels. Additionally, regardless of the role played, business models do not act 
alone as a basis for socio-technical transformations, as they depend on the positioning and dynamic 
interactions of other actors and elements within the regime (Sarasini and Linder, 2018).  
Although BMI may influence sustainable transitions, promoting tensions in current socio-technical 
regimes, few studies have focused on understanding how BMI may be integrated into socio-
technical regimes to foster changes (Sarasini and Linder, 2018). Additionally, the transitions 
perspective presents many opportunities to broaden the dialogue with the firm's theories, 
connecting the firm elements with established concepts in the transition studies (Köhler et al., 
2019). 
On the other hand, the business model perspective is widely applied as an essential tool for 
researchers and practitioners to understand and progress sustainable innovation, but few tools that 
assist BMI have been investigated (Weissbrod and Bocken, 2017). 
When we analyze the transitions perspective in emerging countries, the focus of this research, the 
transformation of the regimes may not be associated with niches as the only sources of change. For 
instance, it is possible to observe transitions pathways in which the focus is on improvements in 
the dominant regimes of mobility rather than on a new niche development, reinforcing the idea 
that BMI could play a relevant role in this context (Ghosh and Schot, 2019; Marotti de Mello, 
Valsecchi Ribeiro de Souza and Marx, 2021). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
484 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Complementary, there is a growing awareness and extensive literature related to the need to 
transition to more sustainable mobility systems in cities (Banister, 2008; Stead, 2013).  
Sustainable urban mobility has been configured as a fertile ground for new business models, 
especially those related to the provision of new and ICT-based services. On this last aspect, it is 
evident that the increasing entry of new players towards sustainable mobility may reveal a variety 
in the patterns of niche development, involving coalitions between new entrants and incumbents, 
configuring as a relevant research perspective (Turnheim and Geels, 2019).  
Drawing on the idea that BMI may positively impact sustainable transitions, driving changes in the 
current socio-technical regimes, this research aims to understand which factors influence the BMI 
process in these transitions. In particular, we answer the following research question: which factors 
influence the stabilization process of new business models in the socio-technical regime? 
We address this research question by analyzing some case studies of companies in Brazil and China 
that developed new business models in mobility anchored on services supported by ICT through in-
depth interviews.  
The paper's primary contribution is to the business model perspective by revealing relevant factors 
that could impact the implementation dynamics of the strategic and operational activities involved 
in the BMI process in the socio-technical regime from the firms' perspective.  
In this sense, through the lens of sustainable business models, research in this field benefits from 
more integrative approaches than those oriented towards strengthening this topic as a stand-alone 
positioning or a sub-field of other areas (Lüdeke-Freund and Dembek, 2017). 
Another complementary contribution is to sustainable transitions research by examining the 
dynamics of BMI and what factors influence its evolution from the niche level to stabilization in the 
regime, supporting identifying the links between niches to regimes more consistently, including 
helping to answer why some niche-level innovations succeed whereas others fail (Sarasini and 
Linder, 2018). 
Finally, the paper contributes to the development of public policies based on integrating multiple 
actors involved in business initiatives that promote sustainable mobility, elucidating critical aspects 
from the firm's side relevant to creating of these policies. 
This paper is structured as follows. Section 2 presents the theoretical background. Section 3 details 
the methods used to carry out this research. Section 3 presents the results and discussions based 
on the empirical evidence found. Finally, section 4 presents the conclusions and implications of this 
research. 
Theoretical background 
Stabilization in the socio-technical regime: beyond the strategic niche management (SNM) 
Transitions encompass nonlinear processes resulting from multiple interactions at three analytic 
levels: niches (sources for innovative transformations), socio-technical regimes (established 
valuable sources and associated rules), and a socio-technical landscape. Therefore, MLP helps to 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
485 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
explain why different interactions happen simultaneously at the niche levels (micro-level in 
constant change and experimentation) - and the regime level (stable meso-level with well-
established and relatively accepted rules) (Geels, 2004, 2012). 
Within the MLP, novelties emerge in niches, known as ‘protected spaces’ such as R&D laboratories, 
subsidized demonstration projects, or small market niches where users have particular demands 
and are willing to support emerging innovations based on the development of new technologies. 
Niches are fundamental for transitions because they provide the seeds for systemic change. For a 
niche innovation to eventually break through and replace the current regime, its degree of stability 
needs to increase (Geels, 2012). 
Although niches are crucial for transitions, the literature has historically paid much attention to 
technological niches as the primary sources of innovation for regime change and, in practical terms, 
it is already known that different typologies of innovations determine the transitions paths (Geels 
and Schot, 2007). This is also reinforced by the research reported by Ghosh & Schot (2019). 
According to Hoogma, Kemp, Schot, & Truffer (2002), there are some sub-processes of stabilization 
in the regime: (1) articulation of visions and expectations, (2) learning processes, and (3) building 
of social networks. Expectations and visions are related to stability if they are more robust (i.e., 
shared by more actors), more specific (i.e., may provide orientation for the coordination of actors), 
and with higher quality (i.e., substantiated by ongoing projects). Learning processes are related to 
higher stability if they allow the reapplication of accumulated learning (i.e., enable changes of 
previous assumptions). Finally, social networks are related to stability if they are a) broad (i.e., 
involve different stakeholders) and b) deep (i.e., able to mobilize commitment and resources). 
BMI in societal transitions 
Complementary, organizations recognize the emergence of dynamic markets in which 
competitiveness must be based on variables besides the price: intangible customer solutions - 
complementary to products that can meet their needs - and demand - because customers can be 
part of undeveloped markets. Due to this context, business models have lately received more 
attention (Teece, 2010). 
Business models themselves have increasingly been considered subject to innovation, as they may 
be an enabler of innovations, acting as a promising unit of analysis or a starting point for innovation 
strategies within the companies (Schneider and Spieth, 2013). 
In the context of societal transitions and as subject to innovation, business models are an example 
of a non-technological niche innovation that already fulfills in some extant the sub-process of 
stabilization in the regime described by Hoogma et al. (2002).  
Richardson (2008) indicated three essential business model parts: (1) value proposition – what an 
organization intends to deliver to its customers and the reasons why they would pay for it; (2) value 
creation and delivery system — how an organization articulates resources, capabilities, processes, 
and networks of customers and suppliers to create and deliver the value intended; and (3) value 
capture — how an organization generates revenue and profit from activities. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
486 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Novel business models emerge at a higher level of stability than a technological innovation niche 
and directly build up a substantial part of the new regime, but with different degrees of maturity 
concerning these processes (see Fig 1). (Bidmon and Knab, 2018).  
 
Fig. 1. Business models as non-technological niche innovation (Bidmon and Knab, 2018). 
Framework of analysis 
Even if new business models as a subject of innovation – specifically as a form of a non-technology 
niche - already fill in some extant the sub-processes that guarantee their stabilization in the regime 
according to different degrees of maturity, we argue that the stabilization process of new business 
models in the socio-technical regime is related not only to the organization and management of its 
operational activities at the firm level (micro-level) but also to how these sub-processes are 
managed (meso-level).  
In this sense, how the processes that guarantee the stabilization of new business models in the 
regime are managed may be influenced by different factors and, therefore, contribute in different 
degrees to this stabilization. 
Therefore, the comprehension of both processes regarding the development of business models at 
the firm level and those related to their stabilization in the regime are relevant to understand how 
BMI drives sustainable transitions.  
We propose to analyze which factors influence the BMI process of stabilization in the socio-
technical regime by applying a framework that investigates the micro-level perspective – drawing 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
487 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
on the BMI approach – and the meso-level perspective – drawing on the sub-processes of 
stabilization, through cases of mobility (see Fig. 2).  
 
Fig. 2. Framework analysis (own figure based on Bidmon & Knab, 2018; Geels, 2012; Hoogma et al., 2002; 
Richardson, 2008) 
Methods 
Since the research objective is to investigate which factors influence the stabilization process of 
new business models in the socio-technical regime, a qualitative research approach was chosen. 
Among the available qualitative research techniques, we chose to carry out a multiple case study, 
and the primary source of data was semi-structured interviews performed with executives of the 
selected companies who have deep knowledge about the strategy and operation of the analyzed 
business model (Eisenhardt, 1989; Voss, Tsikriktsis and Frohlich, 2002). 
This approach is essential and advantageous to collect the type of information we were looking for 
since this data is not available in a structured way and depends on the specific context of each 
company concerning the dimensions analyzed (Meredith and Mccutcheon, 1993). 
Therefore, semi-structured interviews were used to allow respondents to freely explore the aspects 
addressed, without the content being limited only to the constructs discussed in the literature, 
which is an advantage of this technique (Yin, 2005). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
488 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Mobility services companies in Brazil and China were selected for the research due to the relevance 
of the urban mobility issue in these countries; in addition to concentrating in large urban centers, 
in addition to the fact that they have particularities in their trajectory in the planning of transport 
solutions compared to developed countries (Cervero, 2013; Marotti de Mello, Valsecchi Ribeiro de 
Souza and Marx, 2021).  
In order to identify application areas compatible with the idea of new business models oriented to 
sustainable urban mobility, we based on a framework proposed by Souza, Mello, & Marx (2019). 
Table 1 describes the selected firms. 
Firms 
Country 
Business models 
Firm 1 
Brazil 
A platform for integration of public transport fare payment 
Firm 2 
Brazil 
Bike-sharing operator 
Firm 3 
Brazil 
Corporate carpool sharing service 
Firm 4 
Brazil 
Carsharing service for companies as an alternative for fleet 
management 
Firm 5 
Brazil 
A platform for provision of public transport information 
Firm 6 
China 
Ride hailing service provider 
Firm 7 
China 
Bike-sharing operator 
Table 1 – List of companies selected to the study 
According to the constructs reviewed in the literature and summarized in the analysis framework 
(Fig. 2), the authors prepared a set of questions. This interview guide was structured so that the 
interviewees first describe which factors influenced the structuring of the analyzed business model 
- the BMI process - according to the framework proposed by Richardson (2008) – value proposition, 
value creation, and delivery system, and value capture. Subsequently, it were investigated which 
factors are influencing the sub-process of stabilization in the regime described by Geels (2012) and 
Hoogma et al. (2002) – articulations of visions and expectations, learning process, and building of 
social networks - and how the company has managed each one of these sub-processes. 
The transcript of the interviews was analyzed using the thematic analysis approach. This included 
highlighting the parts in the interview transcripts that seemed related to the dimensions of the 
research analysis framework according to the interviewer. This process was carried out based on 
the methodology suggested by Nowell, Norris, White, & Moules (2017). According to these authors, 
the thematic analysis comprises identifying, analyzing, organizing, describing, and reporting themes 
found within a data set. This approach’s main advantages benefit from summarizing critical features 
of a large data set. 
As the aim of the paper is to reflect and add to the findings previously existing in the literature, a 
deductive approach was primary applied (Nowell et al., 2017). This means the content of the 
interviews was tagged according to the categories present in the framework of analysis. Sub-
categories were also proposed inductively when the authors perceived a particular logical pattern 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
489 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
of the tagged content, especially in the dimensions of factors directly related to how the business 
models were structured according to their parts. 
In order to supplement the interviews, secondary data were considered, mainly information 
available in the news about the analyzed companies, such as interviews with founders, reports of 
companies' trajectories, or investor analyses, in addition to the companies' institutional websites. 
Results and discussion 
Factors influencing the BMI process 
Value proposition (VP) 
When analyzing the VP of the business models, despite the specific benefits offered by each one of 
them, four factors were identified influencing their value proposition: improvement of the journey's 
convenience, offering more options to make trips, provision of more accessibility, provision of an 
environmentally friendly alternative and ensuring safety risk to make trips (see Table 2). 
The improvement of the journey's convenience indicates if the VP intends to improve the conditions 
in which urban mobility is accessed by its users according to their local context and reality. In this 
sense, all the analyzed business models are explicitly concerned with providing better conditions 
for their users to move around. 
Offering more options to make trips indicates that the VP diversifies the existing modal options for 
the users, thus generating new travel alternatives in addition to the private car option. Only 
business models that encourage the use of public transport do not offer a new modal as the main 
benefit from the service (Firms 1 and 5), but somehow, they are also contributing to the 
replacement by more sustainable alternatives. 
Provision of more accessibility indicates if the VP intends to increase accessibility in the business 
model's contexts, i.e., extending the access or benefits of specific travel options to more people. It 
is evident in most firms, including features facilitating transport access from remote places with 
fewer travel options. 
The provision of an environmentally friendly alternative indicates if the VP is explicitly concerned 
with providing environmental benefits, especially in reducing pollutant emissions in urban mobility, 
as is the case of the business models based on sharing. 
Ensuring safety risk to make trips if the VP is concerned with the security of users in the whole 
system, providing safe conditions for their users, as is the case of the hide-hailing and carpool 
sharing services. 
 
 
Factors influencing value proposition 
 
Main aspects of value 
proposition (VP) 
Improvement 
of the 
journey’s 
convenience 
Offering more 
options to 
make trips 
Provision of 
more 
accessibility 
Provision of an 
environmental
ly friendly 
alternative 
Ensuring 
safety risk to 
make trips 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
490 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Firm 
1 
Increase degree of integration 
of public transport 
Improvement of the conditions 
for using public transport 
Promote intermodal 
integration 
. 
 
 
 
. 
Firm 
2 
Additional transport alternative 
Convenience for quick and 
short trips 
Expansion of the access to the 
bicycle as a transport 
alternative 
Promotion of healthy and 
active life 
Promoting intermodal 
integration 
. 
. 
. 
. 
 
Firm 
3 
Less pollution and reduction of 
wasted resources  
Decrease the mobility impact in 
the surroundings 
Access to a safe, practical, 
affordable, comfortable, and 
low-cost transportation option 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
Firm 
4 
Additional benefit to 
employees for seasonal 
commuting 
Savings of resources used in 
corporate travels 
Transport alternative based on 
comfort, practicality, and 
convenience 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
Firm 
5 
Provision of relevant 
information about public 
transport 
Contribution to more efficient 
use of public transport 
Contribution to the sustainable 
development of mobility in 
cities 
. 
 
. 
 
 
Firm 
6 
Provide more convenient, 
safer, and more comfortable 
service 
Reduce empty and idle vehicles 
in transport and save resource 
Create opportunities for green 
trips using electric vehicles 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
Firm 
7 
Additional transport alternative 
Convenience for quick and 
short trips 
Expansion of the access to the 
bicycle as a transport 
alternative 
Promotion of healthy and 
active life 
. 
. 
. 
. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
491 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Complement the public 
transport 
Table 2 – Factors influencing value proposition 
Value creation and delivery system (VCD) 
The VCD is influenced by the local government and urban mobility system involvement, the type of 
technological resources, and the dependence on user behavior change for product adoption (see 
Table 3). 
Government involvement indicates if the VCD requires the public sector involvement to organize 
the critical activities of the business model, such as public policies and specific regulations, i.e., 
those that are essential for delivering the product to customers. Even services based on car or ride-
sharing, less dependent on government action, could benefit from greater cooperation with local 
public authorities to increase the possibilities of delivering value to the user. 
Urban mobility system involvement indicates if the VCD is oriented to create synergies with existing 
transportation systems in cities as part of its key activities, especially public ones, enabling a higher 
level of integration between transport systems and then creating a mutual relationship of value 
generation for all of the users. 
Own technological resources indicate if the VCD concentrates as part of the set of crucial 
competencies on developing its own technological applications that support the core activities of 
the operation. Therefore, technological resources are often considered a primary competence of 
the analyzed firms and guarantee the scalability and evolution of the business. 
The dependence on user behavior change for product adoption indicates if the VCD requires some 
degree of change in the travel behavior patterns of users for product adoption - because 
transportation alternatives depend on an individual choice and change of mindset, like many 
innovations in this field emerge as experimental initiatives. 
 
 
Factors influencing value creation and delivery system of BMI 
 
Main aspects of value creation and 
delivery system 
Local 
government 
involvement 
Urban mobility 
system 
involvement 
Own 
technological 
resources 
Dependence on 
user behavior 
change 
Firm 
1 
Partnerships and cooperation 
agreements with Municipalities 
Technical aspects of the model for 
charging and payment of transportation 
fees 
Technological competence for the 
payment integration 
. 
. 
. 
. 
Firm 
2 
Response to public bids 
Partnerships with sponsors for financial 
viability 
Acquisition and maintenance of physical 
and technological resources for 
operating 
. 
. 
. 
. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
492 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Firm 
3 
Corporate agreements to sell the service 
Technological competence to operate 
Encouragement of users to adopt it 
 
 
. 
. 
Firm 
4 
Technological competencies for 
operation 
Acquisition, adaptation, and 
maintenance of vehicles 
 
 
. 
. 
Firm 
5 
Technological competence for platform 
development 
Relationship with users 
. 
. 
. 
 
Firm 
6 
Response to public bids 
Acquisition and maintenance of physical 
and technological resources for 
operating 
Integration with digital payment 
platforms 
. 
. 
. 
. 
Firm 
7 
Acquisition of own fleet, focus on new 
energy car 
Technological competence to operate 
Integration with digital payment 
platforms 
. 
 
. 
. 
Table 3 – Factors influencing value creation and delivery system 
Value capture (VC) 
VC structure is influenced by government subsidies, cross-subsidization, and direct sales. 
Government subsidies show the revenue structure is supported by public resources, either through 
the financial resources themselves or other types of funding that allow the business to become 
feasible, such as the commercialization of services to the public sphere. 
Cross subsidization reveals the revenue structure is supported through the commercialization of 
aggregate services, ranging from advertising, sale of name or brand rights, indirect sale of services, 
or commercialization of user's information such as travel patterns contained in the databases, 
which seems to be very frequent as a way to ensure the maintenance of the business. 
Direct sales indicate if final customers resources support the revenue structure by acquiring the 
product. 
 
 
Factors influencing value capture of BMI 
 
Main aspects of value capture 
Government 
subsidies 
Cross 
subsidization 
Direct sales 
Firm 
1 
Commission paid by the entity 
responsible for managing public 
transport that acquires the service 
Commission from aggregated services 
added to the platform (generally 
payment services) 
. 
. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
493 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Firm 
2 
Sponsorship for name rights exploration 
User fees charged  
Incentives of the public sphere (less 
usual) 
. 
. 
. 
Firm 
3 
Fee paid by the contracting company 
Commission paid by the user for using 
the service 
 
 
. 
Firm 
4 
Fee paid by the contracting company 
 
 
 
. 
Firm 
5 
Commercialization of aggregate services 
Commercialization of advertising  
Commercialization of information about 
the user’s database 
. 
. 
. 
Firm 
6 
User fees charged  
 
 
. 
Firm 
7 
User fees charged  
Cars leasing 
 
. 
. 
Table 4 – Factors influencing value capture 
Factors influencing the sub-process of stabilization 
Articulations of visions and expectations  
The actors involved in structuring the business models reinforce the idea that the articulation of 
visions and expectations in this field occurs not only through the direct involvement of many 
different players but often through dependence on other specific actors interested in supporting 
business initiatives analyzed here. 
In this sense, business models are starting points that may initiate transformations in current 
mobility regimes, but they cannot change this dynamic on their own.  
In some cases, they can offer complementary services that can encourage the adoption of more 
sustainable mobility alternatives, such as models based on sharing or even public transport 
incentives, but they will not replace the current conventional alternatives, complementing the 
findings provided by Ghosh & Schot (2019). 
However, regardless of the role played, the results converge to the idea that business model’s 
implementation requires articulation of visions and expectations, observed above all by the need 
for the involvement of multiple actors when establishing their operations (Hoogma et al., 2002). 
In Firms 2 and 7, the bike-sharing operators, the municipalities must first demonstrate an interest 
in carrying out projects of this nature and then formalize an agreement with the service operator 
through a kind of public bid. 
In addition to this, the agreement's success depends on rules included in the public bid, which is 
only possible according to the ability to articulate and find synergies between the interests and 
expectations of public actors with those of the service's operator. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
494 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
In Firm 5, the application that offers information on public transport, this dimension is associated 
with the fact that the company needs to access the open data policies of the municipalities to 
provide users with accurate information about public transport. Without this agreement, it is 
practically impossible to implement the business model. 
Without this alignment of visions and expectations - even if there were no impediments to the 
installation of sharing systems -the business models would risk losing relevance by not being 
integrated into the dynamics of the transport city. This is the case, for instance, of the bicycle 
stations installed close to public transport, as is the case of Firm 2, which facilitates the generation 
of value for the user and encourages intermodal integration but requires the previous alignment. 
Indeed, for a business model to emerge, it already needs to have its visions and expectations well-
articulated and communicated among the multiple actors involved in this process (Bidmon and 
Knab, 2018). 
Learning process  
The dimension of the learning process is of fundamental importance in the evolution of the business 
model and the development of new service characteristics, requiring a continuous review of the 
value proposition. 
For instance, in Firm 1, a service that directly impacts another third service – the public transport 
system in cities - managers perceive the application of the learning accumulated from the 
relationships established with partners as a relevant practice for the maturation of the business 
model. 
This is also the case for the carpooling service (Firm 3). The learning aspects are present, above all, 
in the various adaptations the business model has undergone. For example, the service had a more 
comprehensive initial proposal for sharing rides for anyone and needed to specialize in corporate 
mobility to establish itself as a business. As a result, rides are shared only between employees of 
the same companies that hire the service from Firm 3 and are willing to offer its employees this 
type of initiative.  
This process was linked to the recognition, through the relationship with users, that the habit of 
taking rides in Brazil was not explored and, therefore, requires changes in behavior and incentives 
in the public sphere, such as the possibility of using exclusive lanes of buses for cars with more than 
three people, although this last aspect is not yet fully explored. 
The company that offers a fleet management service based on carsharing (Firm 4) emphasized the 
dimension of learning related to users' accountability of consumption practices. Since different 
people can use shared cars and are often not used to carsharing services, it is encouraged to check 
before using the vehicle, ensuring that it is in proper condition and report any abnormality. The 
more the user is responsible for the vehicles he uses, the cheaper the service is for the contracting 
company and, consequently, for the customer, reinforcing the relevance of this learning – at the 
company and the customer level - to the business model consolidation. 
The learning dimension is in line with the idea discussed by Sarasini and Linder (2018). The BMI 
approach is intrinsically experimental and an iterative process that allows the replication of 
accumulated learning more quickly, facilitating its adaptation to act in a socio-technical regime. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
495 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
However, this transformation can often only occur when it is possible to influence the change of 
other business models besides the firm. 
Building of social networks 
Building a social network is a fundamental aspect of implementing business models, and different 
factors influence it. 
One of them is the VC, covering how the revenue model works. Incorporating different revenue 
sources through the aggregation of services is an example, and it requires constructing a network 
of actors to support the commercialization of these services. 
To some extent, some of these business models substantially expand their initial scope of operation 
by building networks with other actors. For example, this is the case of the hide railing firm in China 
(Firm 6), which currently buys the vehicles and lends them to the platform's drivers in a leasing 
model as a complementary source of revenue, and the case of the bike-sharing operator in Brazil 
(Firm 2), which has partnered with a vast food delivery company to offer e-bike rentals to couriers.  
This aspect also influences local competition. For example, the bike-sharing operator in China (Firm 
7) highlighted the need to establish greater cooperation between other actors operating in the 
same market, aiming to obtain a "one voice" speech that could represent the interests of this sector, 
highlighting the need to strengthen networks as an essential factor for business maintenance. 
Building of social networks also takes place at the operation level. Firm 7 has partnered with one of 
the largest digital payment operators in China, which facilitates the instant payment of bike rentals 
by the user, in addition to having significantly expanded the service user base. 
These findings empirically reinforce the idea presented by Bidmon and Knab (2018) that business 
models require multiple actors to collaborate beyond the authority of a single organization, 
including demanding a high degree of commitment from these other actors. This is evidenced by 
the fact that a new business model presented by an actor will probably also require changes in the 
business models of other actors, as is the case of the companies analyzed. 
The figure below summarizes the updated analysis framework after empirical evidence (Fig 2).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
496 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Fig. 2. Updated framework analysis (prepared by the authors) 
Conclusions 
As a first theoretical contribution, the research revealed that the BMI process might act as 
intermediaries between niches and regimes with a higher level of structuring than a technological 
niche, empirically reinforcing the findings proposed by Bidmon & Knab (2018) and Sarasini and 
Linder (2018), revealing specific factors from the firm level that must be taken into account in the 
process of experimenting with new business models in the field of mobility. 
BMI in the mobility field can bring complementary and incremental mobility alternatives to the 
current regimes, incorporating concerns toward more sustainable mobility that may be integrated 
into the established transport options. 
Considering the reported cases, these ICT service-based business models should have the 
conditions to manage the processes to stabilize the regimes. Furthermore, it is evident how the BMI 
process requires cooperation opportunities with multiple other actors to complement the 
necessary competencies, even modifying the dynamics of other complementary business models. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
497 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The analyzed business models indicate that the factors associated with their stabilization in the 
regime are crucial even for the emergence of these initiatives. When these aspects are neglected 
or poorly managed, the business model loses relevance. 
However, the findings also revealed that the dependency relationships with some specific actors 
involved in the dominant mobility regimes could also be reinforced by implementing the analyzed 
business models, as they do not have enough resources to ensure their operationalization activities 
on their own. 
As another contribution, the research evidenced factors that influence the BMI process, which can 
be considered to create similar or complementary business initiatives from the managerial practice 
of view. 
Even if BMI for mobility can deliver, in some cases, sustainability and contribute to transitions when 
there is no support from public policies, as Sarasini and Linder (2018) argue, this lack of support can 
indeed compromise its consolidation. It is evident throughout numerous analyzed cases since many 
opportunities for evolving the business model are constrained by the lack of supportive and specific 
public policies. 
Future studies could investigate what roles these business models can play in a sustainable 
transition according to the different scenarios in which they operate, recognizing the BMI process's 
particularities in regime stabilization. 
Acknowledgments. The authors are grateful to the USP-COFECUB Program, which funded 
academic missions between France and Brazil; to the Fudan Development Institute (FDDI) from 
Fudan University, which provided grants through the Fudan-Latin America University Consortium 
(FLAUC Fellow Program) for the empirical investigation in China; and, finally, to the Coordination 
for the Improvement of Higher Education Personnel (CAPES) from Brazil, which provided Ph.D. 
grant. 
References  
Banister, D. (2008) ‘The sustainable mobility paradigm’, Transport Policy. Elsevier, 15(2), pp. 73–80. doi: 
10.1016/j.tranpol.2007.10.005. 
Bidmon, C. M. and Knab, S. F. (2018) ‘The three roles of business models in societal transitions: New linkages 
between business model and transition research’, Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 178, 
pp. 903–916. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.12.198. 
Cervero, R. (2013) ‘Linking urban transport and land use in developing countries’, The Journal of Transport 
and Land Use, 6(1), pp. 7–24. 
Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989) ‘Building Theories from Case Study Research’, Academy of Management Review, 
(June), pp. 532–550. 
Geels, F. W. (2004) ‘From sectoral systems of innovation to socio-technical systems: Insights about dynamics 
and change from sociology and institutional theory’, Research Policy, 33(6–7), pp. 897–920. doi: 
10.1016/j.respol.2004.01.015. 
Geels, F. W. (2012) ‘A socio-technical analysis of low-carbon transitions: introducing the multi-level 
perspective into transport studies’, Journal of Transport Geography. Elsevier Ltd, 24, pp. 471–482. 
doi: 10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2012.01.021. 
Geels, F. W. and Schot, J. (2007) ‘Typology of sociotechnical transition pathways’, Research Policy, 36(3), pp. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
498 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
399–417. doi: 10.1016/j.respol.2007.01.003. 
Ghosh, B. and Schot, J. (2019) ‘Towards a novel regime change framework: Studying mobility transitions in 
public transport regimes in an Indian megacity’, Energy Research and Social Science. Elsevier, 
51(November 2018), pp. 82–95. doi: 10.1016/j.erss.2018.12.001. 
Hoogma, R. et al. (2002) Experimenting for Sustainable Transport Transport: the approach of strategic niche 
management. 1st edn. London, New York: Spon Press. 
Köhler, J. et al. (2019) ‘An agenda for sustainability transitions research: State of the art and future directions’, 
Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions. Elsevier, 31(December 2018), pp. 1–32. doi: 
10.1016/j.eist.2019.01.004. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Dembek, K. (2017) ‘Sustainable business model research and practice: Emerging field 
or passing fancy?’, Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 168, pp. 1668–1678. doi: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.08.093. 
Marotti de Mello, A., Valsecchi Ribeiro de Souza, J. and Marx, R. (2021) ‘Public Transport in Emerging 
Countries: From Old Dilemmas to Opportunities for Transition to Sustainable Mobility Through the 
Case of Brazil’, in Mira-Bonnardel, S., Antonialli, F., and Attias, D. (eds) The Robomobility Revolution 
of Urban Public Transport. Transportation Research, Economics and Policy. 1st edn. Springer, Cham, 
pp. 167–179. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-72976-9_8. 
Meredith, J. R. and Mccutcheon, M. (1993) ‘Conducting case study research in operations management’, 11, 
pp. 239–256. 
Nowell, L. S. et al. (2017) ‘Thematic Analysis: Striving to Meet the Trustworthiness Criteria’, International 
Journal of Qualitative Methods, 16(1), pp. 1–13. doi: 10.1177/1609406917733847. 
Richardson, J. (2008) ‘The business model: an integrative framework for strategy execution’, Strategic 
Change, 17(5/6), pp. 133–144. doi: 10.1002/jsc.821. 
Sarasini, S. and Linder, M. (2018) ‘Integrating a business model perspective into transition theory: The 
example of new mobility services’, Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions. Elsevier, 
27(October 2017), pp. 16–31. doi: 10.1016/j.eist.2017.09.004. 
Schneider, S. and Spieth, P. (2013) ‘Business Model Innovation: Towards an Integrated Future Research 
Agenda’, International Journal of Innovation Management, 17(01), p. 1340001. doi: 
10.1142/S136391961340001X. 
Souza, J. V. R. de, Mello, A. M. De and Marx, R. (2019) ‘When Is an Innovative Urban Mobility Business Model 
Sustainable? A Literature Review and Analysis’, Sustainability (Switzerland), 11(6), pp. 1–18. doi: 
10.3390/su11061761. 
Stead, D. (2013) ‘Identifying Key Research Themes for Sustainable Urban Mobility’, International Journal of 
Sustainable Transportation, 8318(February), pp. 1–8. doi: 10.1080/15568318.2013.820993. 
Teece, D. J. (2010) ‘Business models, business strategy and innovation’, Long Range Planning. Elsevier Ltd, 
43(2–3), pp. 172–194. doi: 10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.003. 
Turnheim, B. and Geels, F. W. (2019) ‘Incumbent actors, guided search paths, and landmark projects in infra-
system transitions: Re-thinking Strategic Niche Management with a case study of French tramway 
diffusion 
(1971–2016)’, 
Research 
Policy. 
Elsevier, 
48(6), 
pp. 
1412–1428. 
doi: 
10.1016/j.respol.2019.02.002. 
Voss, C., Tsikriktsis, N. and Frohlich, M. (2002) ‘Case research in operations management’, International 
Journal 
of 
Operations 
and 
Production 
Management, 
22(2), 
pp. 
195–219. 
doi: 
10.1108/01443570210414329. 
Weissbrod, I. and Bocken, N. M. P. (2017) ‘Developing sustainable business experimentation capability – A 
case study’, Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 142, pp. 2663–2676. doi: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.11.009. 
Yin, R. K. (2005) Estudo de caso: planejamento e métodos. 3. ed. Porto Alegre: Bookman. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
499 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Managing the Transition from a 
Conventional Business Model to a 
Portfolio with Sustainable Business 
Models 
 
Terje Berntsen1,* Tor Helge Aas1, John Arngrim Hunnes1 
1School of Business and Law, University of Agder, Gimlemoen 19, 
4630, Kristiansand, Norway  
*terje.berntsen@uia.no  
Extended abstract 
Problem 
Confronted with rapidly changing environments, firms are required to adopt strategies and develop 
innovative business models (BMs) to overcome inertia and create competitive advantage (Tushman 
& O’Reilly, 1996; Markides, 2013). One of the most recent and impactful external changes relates 
to the rising demand for sustainable development in society, presenting a potentially fundamental 
transformation of the business environment. Several recent studies suggest that firms transitioning 
to a sustainability-oriented BM often end up running several BMs in parallel, exploiting existing 
conventional BM alongside new sustainable BMs (cf. Frishammar & Parida, 2019). Managing 
multiple BMs can be particularly challenging because new BMs involve different and often 
incompatible activities, requiring a delicate balance of exploitation and exploration activities 
(Markides, 2013). In general, firms may deal with this challenge by adopting appropriate integration 
and separation strategies across different domains and contexts, as suggested in the ambidexterity 
literature (Winterhalter, Zeschky, & Gassmann, 2016). While it appears widely acknowledged that 
many firms run multiple BMs concurrently, there is little knowledge about how they successfully 
transition to a portfolio of BMs (Visnjic, Jovanovic, & Raisch, 2021). Furthermore, we know even 
less about how this process unfolds in the particular context of sustainability (Dentchev et al., 2018).  
Current understanding  
Adoption of multiple BMs within a firm have been identified as an emergent trend (Li, 2020), and 
can be a valuable tool for businesses to exploit distinctive resources and capabilities, or an effective 
entry strategy in new markets (Sabatier, Mangematin, & Rousselle, 2010). The literature on multiple 
BMs includes conceptualizations of BM diversification, dual and parallel BMs, and BM portfolios. 
Sabatier et al. (2010) distinguish between two approaches for firms transitioning to multiple BMs: 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
500 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
(1) extensions of core competence to increase the market and address additional customers, and 
(2) redeployment of core competence to serve similar markets with the same core competence. 
Research on BM portfolios generally separates between supply and demand side perspectives, 
exploring complementarities or conflicts of managing multiple BMs, and/or the outcomes of these 
activities, without particular attention to sustainability. While BMs are commonly understood as 
the design and architecture of value creation, delivery, and capture mechanisms of a firm (Teece, 
2010), sustainability-oriented BMs offer certain distinction, incorporating environmental, social, 
and economic value, and a wide set of stakeholders (Bocken & Geradts, 2020). The extant literature 
offers rich insight into the processes and practices of firms managing multiple BMs, yet yield limited 
understanding of how companies successfully transition from a single BM to a portfolio, 
encouraging recent calls for more research on ambidexterity (Winterhalter et al., 2016; Visnjic et 
al., 2021), and the impact of sustainable BMs (Dentchev et al., 2018). Ambidexterity is defined as 
the ability to “implement both incremental and revolutionary change” (Tushman & O’Reilly, 1996: 
p. 8). Different modes have been identified; structural ambidexterity refers to the simultaneous 
balance of exploration and exploitation in different units across the spatial dimension (Tushman & 
O’Reilly, 1996), whereas sequential ambidexterity deals with balance across the temporal 
dimension (Duncan, 1976). Contextual ambidexterity refers to adaptability of individual employees 
and their balance of exploration and exploitation in an organizational context (Gibson & Birkinshaw, 
2004). While these modes of ambidexterity may be implicitly understood as mutually exclusive, 
more recent studies suggests a less dichotomous posture, introducing blended ambidexterity (Foss 
& Kirkegaard, 2020), taking into account the possible co-presence of structural and contextual 
ambidexterity.  
Research question  
In this paper we focus on the transition from a single conventional BM to a portfolio that includes 
sustainable BMs, and how an organization balances exploitation and exploration activities during 
this process. We raise the following research question (RQ):  How do firms balance exploitation and 
exploration activities when transitioning from a conventional BM to a portfolio that includes 
sustainable BMs? 
Research design  
To answer the research question raised in this study, we employ an inductive exploratory research 
design, using a qualitative in-depth single case study, adopting multiple embedded units of analysis 
within the case. We have purposely selected a case organization that offers opportunities to build 
theory about the transition to a portfolio of conventional and sustainable BMs, and we are currently 
collecting empirical data through in-depth interviews, participatory observations, and investigation 
of documents. So far, seven interviews have been conducted, ten workshops have been observed 
and internal strategic documents have been investigated, data collection will however continue 
until saturation is reached.  
Findings  
Our preliminary findings shows that the conventional BM success largely rests on the ability to 
exploit existing products and markets, institutionalising structural and cultural rigor that is not 
suited for exploring new sustainable BMs. This encourages initial division of exploitation and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
501 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
exploration activities in order to overcome inertia in the transition to a BM portfolio. Our findings 
indicate that, despite such initial structural separation, BM activities converge closer over time, 
enabling synergies, and may eventually expand into broader and more fruitful BM activities across 
the portfolio, for the purpose of creating an overall competitive advantage for the firm. In balancing 
these activities, we find evidence that blended ambidexterity, the co-presence of multiple modes 
of ambidexterity, alternating between contexts, and changing across spatial and temporal 
dimensions, may be vital for firms to manage the transition to a BM portfolio. Moreover, our 
findings reveal the transition process as iterative, where customer experimentation and 
cooperation is central, particularly in conducting activities that are specific to novel sustainable 
BMs.  
Contribution  
We contribute to an ongoing debate in the literature about managing the transition to a BM 
portfolio. Furthermore, we provide insight on how firms can manage the transition from a 
conventional BM to a portfolio that includes sustainable BMs. Our findings can enable us to propose 
a novel model explaining this transition process.  
Practical implications 
The practical experiences reported in the paper offer an understanding of how transitions towards 
sustainable BMs can be navigated and potentially accelerated by managers.  
Keywords  
Business model, Sustainability, Business model portfolio, Ambidexterity, Experimentation 
References  
Bocken, N. and T. Geradts (2020). Barriers and drivers to sustainable business model innovation: 
Organization design and dynamic capabilities. Long Range Planning 53(4). 
Dentchev, N., R. Rauter, L. Jóhannsdóttir, Y. Snihur, M. Rosano, R. Baumgartner, T. Nyberg, X. Tang, B. Van 
Hoof and J. Jonker (2018). Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field of 
research and a future research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production 194: 695-703. 
Duncan, R. B. (1976). The ambidextrous organization: Designing dual structures for innovation. The 
management of organization 1(1): 167-188. 
Foss, N. J. and M. F. Kirkegaard (2020). Blended ambidexterity: The copresence of modes of ambidexterity 
in William Demant Holding. Long Range Planning 53(6): 102049. 
Frishammar, J. and V. Parida (2019). Circular Business Model Transformation: A Roadmap for Incumbent 
Firms. California Management Review 61(2): 5-29. 
Gibson, C. B. and J. Birkinshaw (2004). The Antecedents, Consequences, and Mediating Role of 
Organizational Ambidexterity. Academy of Management Journal 47(2): 209-226. 
Li, F. (2020). The digital transformation of business models in the creative industries: A holistic framework 
and emerging trends. Technovation 92-93: 102012. 
Markides, C. C. (2013). Business Model Innovation: What Can the Ambidexterity Literature Teach US? 
Academy of Management Perspectives 27(4): 313-323. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
502 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Sabatier, V., V. Mangematin and T. Rousselle (2010). From Recipe to Dinner: Business Model Portfolios in 
the European Biopharmaceutical Industry. Long Range Planning 43(2-3): 431-447. 
Teece, D. J. (2010). Business Models, Business Strategy and Innovation. Long Range Planning 43(2-3): 172-
194. 
Tushman, M. L. and C. A. O’Reilly (1996). Ambidextrous Organizations: Managing Evolutionary and 
Revolutionary Change. California Management Review 38(4): 8-30. 
Visnjic, I., M. Jovanovic and S. Raisch (2021). Managing the Transition to a Dual Business Model: Tradeoff, 
Paradox, and Routinized Practices. Organization Science. 
Winterhalter, S., M. B. Zeschky and O. Gassmann (2016). Managing dual business models in emerging 
markets: an ambidexterity perspective. R&D Management 46(3): 464-479. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
503 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Sustainable By Design: A Tool for 
Organizational Design to Facilitate 
Sustainable Business Model 
Innovation 
 
Matthew Coffay1,*, Nancy Bocken2  
1Department of Business Administration, Western Norway University of 
Applied Sciences, Bergen, Norway; 2Maastricht Sustainability Institute 
(MSI), Maastricht University, Maastricht, the Netherlands  
*mcof@hvl.no 
Extended abstract 
While firms increasingly recognize the need to implement sustainability improvements, they often 
struggle to meet sustainability targets (Geissdoerfer et al., 2018). Radical innovation at the level of 
the business model — how a firm creates, captures, and delivers value — is often needed to achieve 
sustainability goals  (Rashid et al., 2013). Traditional business model innovation — the act of 
devising new, innovative business models by altering existing models and/or designing and 
implementing new ones — can yield higher returns than product or process innovation alone 
(Chesbrough, 2007). Meanwhile, sustainable business model innovation (SBMI) — the act of 
designing and implementing new, sustainable business models (SBMs), i.e. those which “create 
significant positive [impact] and/or significantly reduced negative impacts for the environment and 
society, through changes in the way the organization and its value-network create, deliver value 
and capture value…or change their value propositions” (Bocken et al., 2014) — offers firms a 
number of tangible firm- and sustainability-focused benefits (Geissdoerfer et al., 2018; Bocken & 
Geradts, 2020). It can mitigate long-term risk (Choi & Wang, 2009), improve resilience (Buliga et al., 
2016), reveal new diversification and value creation opportunities (Nidumolu et al., 2008; Tukker & 
Tischner, 2016), provide competitive advantage (Porter & Cramer, 2011), reduce costs (Bocken et 
al., 2014), anticipate future legislation and stakeholder expectations (Schaltegger et al., 2012), 
boost reputation (Homburg et al. 2013) and attractiveness for top talent (Greening & Turban, 2000), 
and address long-term sustainability challenges (Bocken & Geradts, 2020; Foss & Saebi, 2017; 
Laasch, 2019). 
However, despite the purported benefits of SBMI and its importance for meeting sustainability 
targets, there remains a design-implementation gap: companies struggle to successfully design and 
implement new SBMs. One clear reason for this is a lack of adequate tools (Geissdoerfer et al., 
2018). While many tools exist for traditional business model innovation (e.g. the Business Model 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
504 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Canvas (Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010)), there are few tools for SBMI. Those that exist often suffer 
from design issues and/or were designed for specific contexts, thus lacking broader applicability. 
Recently, it has also been determined that firms often lack the dynamic capabilities to engage in 
SBMI (Bocken & Geradts, 2020). Dynamic capabilities  refer to an organization's ability to "integrate, 
build, and reconfigure internal and external competencies to address rapidly changing 
environments" (Teece et al., 1997), often understood as the ability to sense and seize new 
opportunities and transform the organization. Further, recent research has highlighted the 
importance of organizational design for developing adequate dynamic capabilities in general 
(Teece, 2018) and for SBMI in particular (Bocken & Geradts, 2020). A tool which can help firms build 
dynamic capabilities for SBMI by addressing fundamental organizational design considerations 
could therefore prove useful for organizations attempting to design and implement new SBMs. 
This paper presents the Sustainable By Design tool (Figure 1). The tool is built in Miro, an online 
collaboration platform. It approaches SBMI at the level of organizational design. It aids firms in 
developing the dynamic capabilities needed for SBMI. By identifying and mapping barriers and 
drivers to SBMI at the level of organizational culture, strategy, and operations, firms can take action 
to improve organizational design, boosting drivers for SBMI and breaking down barriers. 
 
Figure 1. The Sustainable By Design tool. 
 
The tool is grounded in empirical insights from a study on dynamic capabilities, organizational 
design, and SBMI, involving 56 interviews with top, senior, and mid-level management from 7 MNCs 
engaged in SBMI, including Philips, Unilever, AkzoNobel, Johnson & Johnson, and Pearson (Bocken 
& Geradts, 2020). Interviewees were asked to identify organizational factors that supported or 
inhibited SBMI processes. Analysis of responses revealed common conceptual themes across very 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
505 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
different industries and innovation projects. These were ultimately aggregated into 13 barriers and 
drivers, each associated with an organizational dimension, as shown in Figure 2. 
 
Figure 2. Identifying barriers and drivers for SBMI. Adapted from Bocken & Geradts, 2020. 
Working from this data, the tool is under development following a multi-stage design science 
research (DSR) process as outlined in Peffers et al. (2007) (Figure 3). We began by identifying and 
motivating the problem, as discussed in the introduction above: firms need tools for SBMI; barriers 
and drivers exist which impact firms’ ability to develop dynamic capabilities for SBMI; a tool 
addressing these barriers and drivers could serve to bridge the SBMI design-implementation gap. 
We then defined objectives of our proposed solution (the tool): it should be easy to use, eliminate 
jargon wherever possible, reduce complexity, adhere to the checklist for circular (sustainable) 
business model innovation tool best practices outlined in Bocken et al., 2019 (p. 13). 
 
Figure 3. Design science research process sequence. Adapted from Peffers et al., 2007. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
506 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Next, the lead author designed an initial version of the tool, as pictured in Figure 1. The tool consists 
of three parts: the Barriers & Drivers Map (Figure 4); the Culture, Strategy, and Operations Cards 
(Figure 5), and the Design Grid (Figure 6). 
 
Figure 4. Barriers & Drivers Map. 
 
 
Figure 5. Culture, Strategy, and Organization cards. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
507 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 6. Design Grid. 
In a workshop setting, participants (top and senior management) map out barriers and drivers for 
SBMI. Beginning with the Culture column, participants consider each Barrier-Driver pair, referring 
to the corresponding Card descriptions. For each pair, participants ask themselves: 1) Accuracy: 
how accurately does this describe our organization today? and 2) Feasibility: how easily could we 
change this? Next, participants map the Barrier-Driver pair on the Design Grid. Those barriers and 
drivers which are highly descriptive of the organization are placed higher on the Y (Accuracy) axis, 
while those which could most feasibly be changed are placed further to the right on the X 
(Feasibility) axis. This process is repeated for each Barrier-Driver pair, until all have been mapped 
onto the grid. At the end of the session, participants consider the Barriers in the upper-right 
quadrant (highly descriptive of the organization, feasible to change) and the Drivers in the bottom-
right quadrant (not descriptive of the organization, feasible to change) (Figure 7). These are the 
Culture, Strategy, and Operations components which should be addressed first for maximum 
impact on SBMI. Senior management can proceed to develop strategic interventions to address 
these barriers and drivers. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
508 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 7. Barriers and drivers mapped onto the Design Grid. High impact barriers and drivers inside 
dotted yellow line. 
To complete the DSR process (Figure 3), the tool will be tested (the Demonstration phase) in 
workshop format, with feedback gathered following each session. We will evaluate the tool’s 
effectiveness (the Evaluation phase), proceeding to re-define the tool’s objectives and/or make 
design alterations. Further iterations of the tool will then be workshopped, with new feedback 
gathered from these sessions. The design science process will continue until the tool meets the 
desired objectives, at which point it will be communicated via publication (the Communication 
phase). We anticipate the tool will undergo significant improvements prior to presentation at NBM 
2022. 
This extended abstract and the accompanying tool are intended for NBM 2022 Theme 2: Exploring 
the Sectoral and Organizational Levels - Business Model Experimentation for Sustainability. It 
addresses a central concern of this theme, namely: what kind of tools and methods are needed for 
sustainable and circular business model innovation? More broadly, it addresses the conference 
theme of innovation for economic recovery by providing organizations with a tool which can aid in 
SBMI. 
Keywords  
business model innovation, sustainable business model innovation, tool, organizational design, 
dynamic capabilities 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
509 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
References  
Bocken, N. M. P., Short, S. W., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice review to develop 
sustainable 
business model 
archetypes. 
Journal of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
65, 
42–56. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.039. 
Bocken, N. M. P., Strupeit, L., Whalen, K. & Nußholz, J. (2019) A review and evaluation of circular business 
model innovation tools. Sustainability. 11 (8), 2210. https://doi.org/10.3390/su11082210. 
Bocken, N. M. P., & Geradts, T. H. J. (2020) Barriers and drivers to sustainable business model innovation: 
Organization design and dynamic capabilities. Long Range Planning. 53 (4), 101950. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2019.101950. 
Buliga, O., Scheiner, C. W. & Voigt, K. I. (2016) Business model innovation and organizational resilience: 
Towards an integrated conceptual framework. Journal of Business Economics/ 86 (6), 647–670. 
https://doi.prg/10.1007/s11573-015-0796-y. 
Chesbrough, H. (2007) Business model innovation: It’s not just about technology anymore. Strategy & 
Leadership. 35 (6), 12-17. https://doi.org/10.1108/10878570710833714. 
Choi, J. & Wang, H. (2009) Stakeholder relations and the persistence of corporate financial performance. 
Strategic Management Journal. 30 (8), 895-907. https://doi.org/10.1002/smj.759. 
Foss, N. J. & Saebi, T. (2017) Fifteen years of research on business model innovation: How far have we come, 
and 
where 
should 
we 
go? 
Journal 
of 
Management. 
43(1), 
200–227. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206316675927. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D. & Evans, S. (2018) Sustainable business model innovation: A review. Journal 
of Cleaner Production. 198, 401-416. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.240. 
Greening, D.W . & Turban, D. B. (2000) Corporate social performance as a competitive advantage in attracting 
a 
quality 
workforce. 
Business 
& 
Society. 
39 
(3), 
254–280. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/000765030003900302. 
Homburg, C., Stierl, M. & Bornemann, T. (2013) Corporate social responsibility in business-to-business 
markets: How organizational customers account for supplier corporate social responsibility 
engagement. Journal of Marketing. 77 (6), 54–72. https://doi.org/10.1509/jm.12.0089. 
Laasch, O. (2019) An actor-network perspective on business models: How ‘being responsible’ led to 
incremental 
but 
pervasive 
change. 
Long 
Range 
Planning. 
52 
(3), 
406-426. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2018.04.002. 
Nidumolu, R., Prahalad, C. K., Rangaswami, M. R. (2009) Why sustainability is now the key driver of innovation. 
Harvard Business Review. 87, 56-64. 
Osterwalder, A. & Pigneur, Y. (2010). Business Model Generation: A Handbook for Visionaries, Game 
Changers, and Challengers. Hoboken, Wiley. 
Peffers, K., Tuunanen, T., Rothenberger, M. A. & Chatterjee, S. (2007) A design science research methodology 
for information systems research. Journal of Management Information Systems. 24 (3), 45–77. 
https://doi.org/10.2753/MIS0742-1222240302. 
Porter, M. & Kramer, M. (2011) Creating shared value. Harvard Business Review. 89, 62–77. 
Rashid, A., Asif, F. M. A., Krajnik, P. & Nicolescu, C.M. (2013) Resource conservative manufacturing: An 
essential change in business and technology paradigm for sustainable manufacturing. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 57, 166-177. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.06.012. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E.G. (2012) Business cases for sustainability: The role of business 
model innovation for corporate sustainability. International Journal of Innovation and Sustainable 
Development. 6 (2), 95–119. https://doi.org/10.1504/IJISD.2012.046944. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
510 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Teece, D. J., Pisano, G. & Shuen, A. (1997) Dynamic capabilities and strategic management. Strategic 
Management 
Journal, 
18(7), 
509–533. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1097-
0266(199708)18:7<509::AID-SMJ882>3.0.CO;2-Z. 
Tukker, A. & Tischner, U. (2006) New Business for Old Europe. Sheffield, Greenleaf. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
511 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Sustainable Business Model Design 
and Scale in Nascent Impact Ventures 
 
Eduard Esau1, Manuel Reppmann2 
1Leibniz University Hannover; 2University of Mannheim 
Extended abstract 
Abstract 
Impact entrepreneurs play a decisive role in addressing pressing societal grand challenges such as 
climate change. However, during their venture development process, they face particular 
challenges such as aligning sometimes conflicting social, environmental, and commercial value 
mechanisms that traditional for-profit firms have not to deal with to the same extent. Against this 
backdrop, developing a better understanding of how impact entrepreneurs engage in the process 
of designing and scaling business models is gaining relevance to inform the transition toward a 
sustainable economy. This study sets out to explore this process through adopting a qualitative 
research design comprising a grounded theory approach and a subsequent multiple case study 
tracing several nascent impact ventures over two years. Our study potentially contributes to 
sustainable business model and entrepreneurship research by developing a process theory of how 
and when impact entrepreneurs develop, adapt, and scale sustainable business models over time 
and thereby overcomes the predominantly static perspectives in previous literature. In this vein, 
we also aim to provide a better understanding through which mechanisms nascent impact ventures 
successfully manage possible paradoxical tensions and successfully grow to competitive established 
firms or, by contrast, fail and fade. 
Introduction 
Various stakeholders such as policymakers, investors, activists, and customers increasingly demand 
private firms to help solve societal “grand challenges” such as climate change, resource scarcity, or 
poverty beyond merely generating profits. (George et al., 2016; Salmivaara & Kibler, 2020). Such a 
realignment of a firm’s purpose usually requires a substantial transformation of how a firm creates 
value,  which is why established firms often struggle with such transitions due to, among others, 
path dependence and inertia (e.g., Bohnsack, Kurtz & Hanelt, 2021; Sydow, Schreyögg & Koch, 
2009; Sirén et al., 2017). In contrast, a rising number of “impact” entrepreneurs respond to these 
stakeholder demands by creating firms based on a hybrid institutional logic, i.e., scaling a business 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
512 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
and capturing adequate profits while pursuing a social and environmental purpose (i.e., higher 
purposes) (Markman et al., 2019; George, Merrill & Schillebeeckx, 2021; George et al., 2021).15 
However, reconciling different logics can be a difficult task. This is because striving to fulfill both 
aspirations, profit and higher purpose, can lead to competing demands and tensions such as 
generating profits with a product while making it accessible for people in need (Pache & Santos, 
2013; Davies & Chambers, 2018). Moreover, impact entrepreneurs face further challenges such as 
initiating institutional change without a level playing field (e.g., competing with non-sustainable 
and thus incorrectly priced solutions that do not consider costs of externalities) and limited access 
to financial resources (e.g., due to difficulties in measuring their societal impact and capturing 
adequate value). Purely for-profit firms might not have to deal with these challenges to the same 
extent (Pinkse & Groot, 2015; Hoogendoorn, van der Zwan & Thurik, 2019). Overall, these can be 
decisive barriers for nascent impact ventures to survive in a market, reach profitable growth as a 
prerequisite to expand their societal impact, and become successful established firms (Hahn, Spieth 
& Ince, 2018; Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund & Hansen, 2016). 
Scholars have increasingly turned their attention to a business model perspective to understand 
these barriers better and identify ways to overcome them (e.g., Bocken & Geradts, 2020; 
Geissdoerfer, Vladimirova, & Evans, 2018; George, Merrill, et al., 2021). The term business model 
refers to a firm’s activity system describing how it creates, delivers, and captures value (Zott & Amit, 
2010; Foss & Saebi, 2017). Such a holistic and systematic perspective on a firm’s value architecture 
allows impact entrepreneurs to incorporate and align social and environmental value mechanisms 
in their business and generate profits while maintaining or regenerating ecologic, social, and 
economic capital beyond the firm’s boundaries (Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund & Hansen, 2016). 
Thus, a business model perspective can be a valuable tool to identify possible tensions and develop 
measures to align different logics in impact ventures (Joyce & Paquin, 2016).  
Against this backdrop, prior research has investigated how sustainable business models can be 
designed (Hahn, Spieth & Ince, 2018; Gregori & Holzmann, 2020) and how particular a hybrid 
institutional logic can be managed (Davies & Chambers, 2018; van Bommel, 2018; Davies & 
Doherty, 2019; Klein, Schneider & Spieth, 2020). Overall, this literature shows possible elements 
and their conjunctions to create sustainable business models and provides valuable insights on 
strategically dealing with challenges and tensions regarding sustainable business models. However, 
this prior research has predominantly adopted a static perspective, leaving open the following 
important questions: how do impact entrepreneurs engage in the process of building business 
models, how and when do they adapt them, and how do they deal with tensions between 
competing logics in that process over time? Moreover, how and when do they scale their business 
models in the course of time (i.e., achieve profitable growth and increase their societal impact) or, 
by contrast, fail and disappear from the market? 
 
15 Entrepreneurship literature uses different terms such as “sustainable entrepreneurship” and “impact 
entrepreneurship” to designate entrepreneurial activity that combine social, environmental, and commercial 
value mechanisms. In the following, to reduce complexity, we solely use the term “impact entrepreneurship” 
to refer to the development and provision of solutions addressing societal “grand challenges”, in a socially, 
environmentally, and financially sustainable manner (Markman et al., 2019). Accordingly, we refer to “impact 
ventures” as for-profit ventures with higher purposes aiming to resolve societal “grand challenges”. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
513 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Applying a dynamic perspective could particularly help to find out whether hybrid logic conflicts 
play out differently in varying phases of the process and if the dominance of one logic varies over 
time. In particular, impact entrepreneurs are often driven by idealistic values, which, together with 
the impact venture’s higher purpose, can also help in the recruitment and motivation of employees. 
However, these idealistic values may conflict with commercial interests, even though some revenue 
or other financial resources are needed for the survival or growth of the nascent firm (Pache & 
Santos, 2013; Hahn, Spieth & Ince, 2018). As an example, in an impact venture that wants to address 
the grand challenge of climate change, the goals of maximizing profits and minimizing the 
environmental footprint might be mutually exclusive. For instance, sourcing goods from an 
overseas supplier may maximize profits due to lower production costs but may increase CO2 
emissions because of greater transportation efforts. In the literature on dealing with such tensions 
in sustainability, there are two emerging research streams: the paradox theory perspective and the 
instrumental perspective. Whereas the paradox theory perspective posits that none of the 
dimensions of the triple bottom line (social, environmental, and economic) should be neglected, 
although a short-term temporary focus on one dimension is possible (Hahn et al., 2018; Ozanne et 
al., 2016), the instrumental perspective favors the economic dimension over the social and 
environmental dimensions. Thus, in the instrumental view, social and environmental goals are only 
pursued if they pay into economic interests (Gao & Bansal, 2013).  
While traditional for-profit ventures often take an instrumental view and focus predominantly on 
their commercial logic, impact ventures face the challenge of addressing and bringing together the 
three different dimensions (Hahn, Spieth & Ince, 2018; Davies & Chambers, 2018). For instance, on 
the one hand, the question arises as to whether impact ventures initially proceed pragmatically by 
also adopting an instrumental perspective, i.e., prioritizing economic growth and shareholder value. 
This approach would possibly lead to better access to financial resources but might threaten 
legitimacy as an impact venture and decrease stakeholder support (Klein, Schneider & Spieth, 
2020). On the other hand, it could also be that they first prioritize the social and ecological 
dimension so that the higher purpose logic is dominant to generate stakeholder legitimacy but 
possibly at the cost of higher financial barriers (Pache & Santos, 2013; Klein, Schneider & Spieth, 
2020). The following example is meant to illustrate possible dynamics in dominant institutional 
logics: an impact entrepreneur driven by idealistic values starts off with a dominant higher purpose 
logic. Following this logic, the firm sources only from local suppliers to reduce the environmental 
footprint of its products. However, after a while, the firm gets under pressure to grow its business 
faster and become more cost-efficient because of, for instance, increasing customer demands, 
investor demands, or new competitors. Since local supply is limited and more expensive, the firm 
decides to source from less environmental-friendly overseas suppliers to meet customers’ or 
investors’ demands or drive a competitor out of the market and, through this, deprioritizes at least 
temporarily its environmental and social goals. Once the firm is either more established in the 
market or stakeholders start to penalize the firm for falling short on its environmental and social 
goals, the higher purpose logic becomes, again, more dominant. Considering this example, taking a 
dynamic perspective might additionally help to explain how and why it comes to the respective 
prioritization, how impact ventures manage emerging tensions and challenges, and to which 
outcome the respective decisions and approaches lead (i.e., growing to an established competitive 
firm versus stagnation or failing). Therefore, answering the above research questions would 
overcome hitherto static perspectives in the literature and provide impact entrepreneurs with 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
514 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
important insights on promising practices over time. Furthermore, such insights might inform the 
decision making of policymakers and funders to create an institutional environment that nurtures 
societal impact through entrepreneurship to drive the transition to a sustainable economy and, 
thus, help to resolve today’s grand challenges (Hahn, Spieth & Ince, 2018; Terán-Yépez et al., 2020; 
George, Merrill & Schillebeeckx, 2021). 
Due to limited theory and empirical evidence to answer our research questions, we employ a 
qualitative research design comprising two steps. First, to get an initial understanding of the 
entrepreneurial processes in the field of sustainable business model design and scale, we follow a 
grounded theory approach (Corley, 2015). For this purpose, we have already carried out 7 semi-
structured in-depth interviews and are planning to conduct additional 20 interviews with founders 
and employees of various impact ventures and venture capital firms as well as accelerators and 
incubators with a focus on sustainability and societal impact. With this approach, we aim to obtain 
first insights from impact ventures while capturing the external perspectives to generate a holistic 
understanding of the topic. In a second step, we adopt a multiple-case theory-building approach 
(Eisenhardt, 1989) to study the process of how nascent impact entrepreneurs design and scale 
business models over time. This approach is well-suited for exploring process research questions 
(Langley, 1999). In this regard, we intend to use in-depth interviews with founders, managers, and 
employees of the case firms, which we repeat after every four to six months over two years. We 
consider this period of time as sufficient to generate a decent understanding of the process and 
observe particular venture outcomes such as successful scaling, stagnation, pivot, or failure. We 
will complement these interviews with archival data, including homepages, social media posts, 
blogs, newspaper articles, and podcasts. Moreover, we intend to add information about two 
extreme groups considering the data sources mentioned above: currently very successful impact 
ventures in terms of profitable growth and societal impact and, by contrast, failed impact ventures. 
Such information would further enrich our understanding of the impact venture development 
processes leading to success or failure. 
Overall, our study potentially contributes to existing research at the intersection of sustainable 
entrepreneurship, strategy, and organization theory in various ways. First, by investigating impact 
ventures over several years, we add to both literature on sustainable business models in general 
and research on how entrepreneurs engage in business model processes in particular. The first 
research stream on sustainable business models has applied a rather static approach, mostly 
describing possible schemas to develop and manage such value architectures. The second stream 
provides valuable insights on how entrepreneurs deal with ambiguity, uncertainty, and 
environmental dynamics by engaging experimentation and learning processes (e.g., McDonald & 
Eisenhardt, 2020; Andries, Debackere & van Looy, 2013). Yet these research streams mainly focused 
on traditional for-profit firms leaving the question open on how to deal with particular challenges 
in the context of sustainability over time. Combining these streams will add to both by developing 
a process theory of how and when impact entrepreneurs create and adapt business models, engage 
in learning processes, and successfully scale and establish their ventures or fail. Against this 
backdrop, we also aim to highlight differences to business model processes of traditional for-profit 
ventures and, therefore, provide a more nuanced understanding of the topic by introducing the 
context of sustainability. Finally, we respond to the call for research on how impact entrepreneurs 
deal with complexities they face when establishing a business (Hoogendoorn, van der Zwan & 
Thurik, 2019; Cohen & Winn, 2007). In this regard, we intend to add to the emerging literature on 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
515 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
paradoxical tensions examining how to deal with challenges occurring from competing institutional 
logics (van Bommel, 2018; De Angelis, 2021; Jay, 2013). 
Keywords  
Sustainable entrepreneurship, business model, growth, grand challenges, process theory. 
References  
Andries, P., Debackere, K. & van Looy, B. (2013) Simultaneous experimentation as a learning strategy: 
Business model development under uncertainty. Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal. [Online] 7 (4), 
288–310. Available from: doi:10.1002/sej.1170. 
De Angelis, R. (2021) Circular economy and paradox theory: A business model perspective. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. [Online] 285, 124823. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.124823. 
Bocken, N.M.P. & Geradts, T.H.J. (2020) Barriers and drivers to sustainable business model innovation: 
Organization design and dynamic capabilities. Long Range Planning. [Online] 53 (4), 101950. 
Available from: doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2019.101950. 
Bohnsack, R., Kurtz, H. & Hanelt, A. (2021) Re-examining path dependence in the digital age: the evolution of 
connected car business models. Research Policy. [Online] 50 (9). Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.respol.2021.104328. 
van Bommel, K. (2018) Managing tensions in sustainable business models: Exploring instrumental and 
integrative strategies. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 196, 829–841. Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.063. 
Cohen, B. & Winn, M.I. (2007) Market imperfections, opportunity and sustainable entrepreneurship. Journal 
of Business Venturing. [Online] 22 (1), 29–49. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jbusvent.2004.12.001. 
Corley, K.G. (2015) A commentary on “what grounded theory is…”: Engaging a phenomenon from the 
perspective of those living it. Organizational Research Methods. [Online] 18 (4), 600–605. Available 
from: doi:10.1177/1094428115574747. 
Davies, I.A. & Chambers, L. (2018) Integrating hybridity and business model theory in sustainable 
entrepreneurship. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 177, 378–386. Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.12.196. 
Davies, I.A. & Doherty, B. (2019) Balancing a hybrid business model: The search for equilibrium at Cafédirect. 
Journal of Business Ethics. [Online] 157 (4), 1043–1066. Available from: doi:10.1007/s10551-018-
3960-9. 
Eisenhardt, K.M. (1989) Building Theories from Case Study Research. Academy of Management Review. 14 
(4), 532–550. 
Foss, N.J. & Saebi, T. (2017) Fifteen years of research on business model innovation: How far have we come, 
and where should we go? Journal of Management. [Online] 43 (1), 200–227. Available from: 
doi:10.1177/0149206316675927. 
Gao, J. & Bansal, P. (2013) Instrumental and integrative logics in business sustainability. Journal of Business 
Ethics. [Online] 112 (2), 241–255. Available from: doi:10.1007/s10551-012-1245-2. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D. & Evans, S. (2018) Sustainable business model innovation: A review. Journal 
of Cleaner Production. [Online] 198, 401–416. Available from: doi:10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2018.06.240. 
George, G., Haas, M.R., McGahan, A.M., Schillebeeckx, S.J.D., et al. (2021) Purpose in the For-Profit Firm: A 
Review and Framework for Management Research. Journal of Management. [Online] Available from: 
doi:10.1177/01492063211006450. 
George, G., Howard-Grenville, J., Joshi, A. & Tihanyi, L. (2016) Understanding and tackling societal grand 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
516 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
challenges through management research. Academy of Management Journal. [Online] 59 (6), 1880–
1895. Available from: doi:10.5465/amj.2016.4007. 
George, G., Merrill, R.K. & Schillebeeckx, S.J.D. (2021) Digital sustainability and entrepreneurship: How digital 
innovations are helping tackle climate change and sustainable development. Entrepreneurship 
Theory and Practice. [Online] 45 (5), 999–1027. Available from: doi:10.1177/1042258719899425. 
Gregori, P. & Holzmann, P. (2020) Digital sustainable entrepreneurship: A business model perspective on 
embedding digital technologies for social and environmental value creation. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. [Online] 272, 122817-undefined. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.122817. 
Hahn, R., Spieth, P. & Ince, I. (2018) Business model design in sustainable entrepreneurship: Illuminating the 
commercial logic of hybrid businesses. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 176, 439–451. 
Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.12.167. 
Hahn, T., Figge, F., Pinkse, J. & Preuss, L. (2018) A paradox perspective on corporate sustainability: Descriptive, 
instrumental, and normative Aspects. Journal of Business Ethics. [Online] 148 (2), 235–248. Available 
from: doi:10.1007/s10551-017-3587-2. 
Hoogendoorn, B., van der Zwan, P. & Thurik, R. (2019) Sustainable entrepreneurship: The role of perceived 
barriers and risk. Journal of Business Ethics. [Online] 157 (4), 1133–1154. Available from: 
doi:10.1007/s10551-017-3646-8. 
Jay, J. (2013) Navigating paradox as a mechanism of change and innovation in hybrid organizations. Academy 
of Management Journal. [Online] 56 (1), 137–159. Available from: doi:10.5465/amj.2010.0772. 
Joyce, A. & Paquin, R.L. (2016) The triple layered business model canvas: A tool to design more sustainable 
business models. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 135, 1474–1486. Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.06.067. 
Klein, S., Schneider, S. & Spieth, P. (2020) How to stay on the road? A business model perspective on mission 
drift in social purpose organizations. Journal of Business Research. [Online] Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2020.01.053. 
Langley, A. (1999) Strategies for theorizing from process data. Academy of Management Review. 24 (4), 691–
710. 
Markman, G.D., Waldron, T.L., Gianiodis, P.T. & Espina, M.I. (2019) E pluribus unum: Impact entrepreneurship 
as a solution to grand challenges. Academy of Management Perspectives. [Online] 33 (4), 371–382. 
Available from: doi:10.5465/amp.2019.0130. 
McDonald, R.M. & Eisenhardt, K.M. (2020) Parallel play: startups, nascent markets, and effective business-
model design. Administrative Science Quarterly. [Online] 65 (2), 483–523. Available from: 
doi:10.1177/0001839219852349. 
Ozanne, L.K., Phipps, M., Weaver, T., Carrington, M., et al. (2016) Managing the tensions at the intersection 
of the triple bottom line: A paradox theory approach to sustainability management. Journal of Public 
Policy and Marketing. [Online] 35 (2), 249–261. Available from: doi:10.1509/jppm.15.143. 
Pache, A.C. & Santos, F. (2013) Inside the hybrid organization: Selective coupling as a response to competing 
institutional logics. Academy of Management Journal. [Online] 56 (4), 972–1001. Available from: 
doi:10.5465/amj.2011.0405. 
Pinkse, J. & Groot, K. (2015) Sustainable entrepreneurship and corporate political activity: Overcoming 
market barriers in the clean energy sector. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice. [Online] 39 (3), 
633–654. Available from: doi:10.1111/etap.12055. 
Salmivaara, V. & Kibler, E. (2020) “Rhetoric mix” of argumentations: How policy rhetoric conveys meaning of 
entrepreneurship for sustainable development. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice. [Online] 44 
(4), 700–732. Available from: doi:10.1177/1042258719845345. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E.G. (2016) Business models for sustainability: A co-evolutionary 
analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, innovation, and transformation. Organization and 
Environment. [Online] 29 (3), 264–289. Available from: doi:10.1177/1086026616633272. 
Sirén, C., Hakala, H., Wincent, J. & Grichnik, D. (2017) Breaking the routines: Entrepreneurial orientation, 
strategic learning, firm size, and age. Long Range Planning. [Online] 50 (2), 145–167. Available from: 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
517 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
doi:10.1016/J.LRP.2016.09.005. 
Sydow, J., Schreyögg, G. & Koch, J. (2009) Organizational Path Dependence: Opening the Black Box. Academy 
of Management Review. [Online] 34 (4), 689–709. Available from: https://about.jstor.org/terms. 
Terán-Yépez, E., Marín-Carrillo, G.M., Casado-Belmonte, M. del P. & Capobianco-Uriarte, M. de las M. (2020) 
Sustainable entrepreneurship: Review of its evolution and new trends. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. [Online] 252. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.119742. 
Zott, C. & Amit, R. (2010) Business model design: An activity system perspective. Long Range Planning. 
[Online] 43 (2–3), 216–226. Available from: doi:10.1016/J.LRP.2009.07.004. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
518 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Circular Economy – Business model 
experimentation, contradictions, and 
conflicts 
 
Florian Hofmann1 
1Brandenburg University of Technology Cottbus, Sociology of 
Technology and the Environment, Institute of Philosophy and Social 
Sciences 
*Florian.Hofmann@b-tu.de  
Extended abstract 
Providing a critical perspective on contemporary production and consumption systems, the 
proposed contribution to the conference addresses a glittering concept that has gained growing 
popularity, not only in corporate strategy designs, but also in economic policymaking arenas: 
Circular business models (CBM). Beside digital technologies, they are seen as a fundamental 
cornerstone to effectively operationalize sustainability in daily business practices. Advocates 
construe CBMs as pragmatic solutions that enable firms to address climate change, natural resource 
scarcity, and ever-increasing landfills with economic opportunities. CBMs facilitate the emergence 
of new value creation ecosystems and function as moderators for the reorganization of production 
and consumption conditions in terms of content, space, and time. 
Since the successful diffusion of CBMs has so far occurred in niche markets, their social acceptance 
is far from the desired ideal. The reasons why viable CBMs are seen as rare phenomena are the 
subject of current research efforts (Gusmerotti et al., 2019; Hansen et al., 2021; Linder & Williander, 
2015; Tura et al., 2019; Vermunt et al., 2019). Recently, the experimentation approach has received 
greater attention in sustainability-oriented management and organizational research to explore 
conditions, recipes and practices that irritate the reproduction of unsustainable business models, 
and thus enable first tentative steps towards CBMs. (Baldassarre et al., 2020; Bocken et al., 2021; 
Brown et al., 2021; Hofmann & Jaeger-Erben, 2020; Konietzko et al., 2020; Weissbrod & Bocken, 
2017). Business model experimentation plays a prominent role in testing, piloting, and validating 
radically novel value creation activities for circularity. Intra-organizational lifeworld laboratories for 
CBM innovation may provide insights for incumbents that help overcome organizational and 
structural inertia, and trigger an evolutionary discovery process to renegotiate what constitutes 
business in sustainability transitions.   

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
519 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
However, the practical implementation and successful execution of CBM experimental spaces are 
highly conflictual in market-based environments. Most of the successful market launches of CBMs 
have so far occurred in niches in the premium segment, therefore, CBM innovation is not yet a part 
of the mainstream. Path dependencies, organizational cultures and ingrained value creation, 
information processing, and resource allocation logics that have grown over decades, which are 
based on the systematic exploitation of nature, make lifeworld laboratories for decelerating 
production and consumption seem remarkably grotesque and absurd. How do incumbents deal 
with these obvious contradictions? What kind of conflicts arise within the organization, but also in 
the dynamic reciprocity with its external environment spheres? Are there possible approaches to 
actively address existential conflicts that arise from the inherent contradictions between “circular-
new” and “linear-old”?  
Drawing on a systematic within- and cross-case analysis with two fundamentally different firms that 
nevertheless share the same objective—the dynamic stabilization of a long-term viable CBM—the 
planned conference contribution tries to draw a picture how they handle and moderate the 
fundamental incompatibilities in their value creation activities and the conflict between “circular-
new” and “linear-old”. The case studies involve one international operating company form the 
electrical appliances sector and a self-appointed social-ecological pioneer from the outdoor textile 
industry. Both have been experimenting with novel CBMs for more than three years. 
Keywords  
Circular Economy, circular business models, experiments, transition conflicts, business model 
experimentation 
References  
Baldassarre, B., Konietzko, J., Brown, P., Calabretta, G., Bocken, N., Karpen, I. O. & Hultink, E. J. (2020). 
Addressing the design-implementation gap of sustainable business models by prototyping: A tool for 
planning and executing small-scale pilots. Journal of Cleaner Production, 255, 120295. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.120295. 
Bocken, N.M.P., Schuit, C.S.C. & Kraaijenhagen, C. (2018). Experimenting with a circular business model: 
lessons 
from 
eight 
cases. 
Environment 
Innovation 
and 
Societal 
Transitions. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eist.2018.02.001. 
Bocken, N., Weissbrod, I. & Antikainen, M. (2021). Business experimentation for sustainability: emerging 
perspectives. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
124904. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.124904. 
Brown, P., Baldassarre, B., Konietzko, J., Bocken, N. & Balkenende, R. (2021). A collaborative partner ideation 
tool for circular value proposition design. Journal of Cleaner Production, 126354. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.126354. 
Gusmerotti, N. M., Testa, F., Corsini, F., Pretner, G. & Iraldo, F. (2019). Drivers and approaches to the circular 
economy 
in 
manufacturing 
firms. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
230, 
314–327. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.05.044. 
Hansen, E., Wiedemann, P., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F., Jaeger-Erben, M., Schomerus, T., Alcayaga, A., 
Blomsma, F., Tischner, U., Ahle, U., Büchle, D., Denker, A., Fiolka, K., Fröhling, M., Häge, A., 
Hoffmann, V., Kohl, H., Nitz, T., Schiller, C., Tauer, R., Vollkommer, D., Wilhelm, D., Zefferer, H., 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
520 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Akinci, S., Hofmann, F., Kobus, J., Kuhl, P., Lettgen, J., Rakowski, M., von Wittken, R. & Kadner, S. 
(2021). Circular Economy Initiative Deutschland – Circular business models: Overcoming Barriers, 
Unleashing Potentials. acatech/SYSTEMIQ, Munich/London 2020. 
Hofmann, F. & Jaeger-Erben, M. (2020). Organizational transition management of circular business model 
innovations.Business 
Strategy 
and 
the 
Environment, 
29, 
2770-2788. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2542. 
Hopkinson, P., Zils, M., Hawkins, P., & Roper, S. (2018). Managing a complex global circular economy business 
model: Opportunities and challenges. California Management Review, 60(3), 71–94. 
https://doi.org/10.1177%2F0008125618764692.  
Konietzko, J., Baldassarre, B., Brown, P., Bocken, N. & Hultink, E., J. (2020). Circular business model 
experimentation: Demystifying assumptions. Journal of Cleaner Production, 277, 122596. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.122596.  
Linder, M. & Williander, M., 2015. Circular business model innovation: inherent uncertainties. Business 
Strategy and the Environment, 26, 182-196. https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.1906. 
Tura, N., Hanski, J., Ahola, T., Stahle, M., Piiparinen, S. & Valkokari, P. (2019). Unlocking circular business: A 
framework 
of 
barriers 
and 
drivers. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
212, 
90–98. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.11.202. 
Vermunt, D. A., Negro, S. O., Verweij, P. A., Kuppen, D. V. & Hekkert, M. P. (2019). Exploring barriers to 
implementing different circular business model. Journal of Cleaner Production, 222, 891–902. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.03.052.  
Weissbrod, I. & Bocken, N., M. (2017). Developing sustainable business experimentation capability–a case 
study. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
142, 
2663–2676. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.11.009.  
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
521 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Experimenting with Business Models 
for Sustainable Value-creation in 
Established Firms 
 
Philip Peck1,*, Lisa Heldt1, Emma Johnson1 
1IIIEE, Lund University 
*philip.peck@iiiee.lu.se 
Abstract 
This work is to extend studies of business model (BM) experimentation for sustainable value 
creation using three cases; here incumbent firms apply resources/networks in pursuit of 
sustainability-oriented BMs via corporate entrepreneurship. A focus query is: How do organisations 
apply experimentation to learn, signal and convince key resource holders to engage with shifts (from 
incumbent BMs) to more circular and servitized models? Research is to deliver insights into how BM 
microprocesses described for startups apply to incumbents, and if the roles/forms and influence of 
experimentation in modeling processes are similar. It is also to unravel how incumbents leverage 
and extend networks, strategic alliances with stakeholders, and the role of ecosystem partnerships, 
to support BMs. A process study approach is applied and analysis will triangulate data from in-depth 
interviews, participant-observation, and archival sources as processes are reconstructed, followed 
(>2 years), and subject to cross-case analysis. This early analysis finds incumbent cases with 
deliberate, purposeful experiments that aim to secure resources. However, context differs from 
earlier studies, as new BMs disrupt incumbent business logics and structures. Evidence is also found 
of ‘corporate entrepreneurs’ extending firm domain-competence via new combinations of internal 
resources and external value chain alliances. This analysis indicates that research extension in two 
areas is needed: a) analysis of where inertial effects and tensions with firm logics influence 
experimentation framing, and its role to secure resources; b) the role, and function of alliances with 
value-chain stakeholders and how they are influenced, shaped, and developed by experimentation 
processes.  
Keywords  
business model experimentation, learning, signaling, convincing, corporate entrepreneurship 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
522 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
523 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Extended Abstract 
 
INTRODUCTION 
This text presents early stages of research that aspires to extend knowledge of experimentation 
and learning for new business models (NBMs). This departs in study of start-ups in clean-tech 
(Bojovic, Genet and Sabatier, 2018; e.g., Aagaard, Saari and Mäkinen, 2021) and circular economy 
(CE) (e.g., Bocken, Schuit and Kraaijenhagen, 2018) but focuses on larger incumbents, where 
experiments reflect business model (BM) diversification (cf. Geissdoerfer et al., 2020) where a 
parent firm’s main business BM continues. Here, innovation applies firm resources and networks 
to either integrate NBMs into the firm, or spin them off; it can also enfold joint BM innovation with 
other organizations. As such, this work can extend work to the realm of ‘internal corporate 
ventures’ where new resource efficient and/or circular BMs are pursued.  
 
This study uses 3 collaborative research cases with Swedish original equipment manufacturers 
(OEMs). Focus is on emergence of sustainability-oriented BMs via forms of corporate 
entrepreneurship (Burgelman, 1984a; cf. Glinyanova et al., 2021). Protagonists present 
experiments as response(s) to three specific ‘megatrends’: decarbonisation imperatives; 
electrification of motion, and digitization that they see significantly disrupting their markets and 
the socio-technical (S-T) regime (cf. Geels, 2002; Geels and Schot, 2007) as it enfolds their firm.  
 
Proponents have shaped experiments to probe the future and new markets (Brown and Eisenhardt, 
1997) and to acquire knowledge of the business environment (Andries, Debackere and van Looy, 
2013). Cases address efforts to commercialize new approaches and/or technologies via NBMs, and 
the BM experimentation appears consistent with forms discussed by a suite of scholars 
(Chesbrough, 2010; McGrath, 2010; Andries, Debackere and van Looy, 2013; Bocken, Schuit and 
Kraaijenhagen, 2018; Bojovic, Genet and Sabatier, 2018; cf. Aagaard, Saari and Mäkinen, 2021). 
Managers frame efforts within the contexts of the CE and servitization (Kamal et al., 2020), and in 
the context of recent public undertakings by corporate leadership related to carbon emissions and 
circularity. Two cases emerge as bounded and internal experiments where the firms appear to 
‘prototype’ the BM, with smaller-scale, ongoing experimentation involving a limited number of 
partners; one is formulated as a large-scale, time-bound project with multiple stakeholders (cf. 
Bojovic, Genet and Sabatier, 2018).  
 
KNOWLEDGE GAPS 
We target a lack of clarity into how processes of experimentation, learning, signaling and 
convincing (L,S&C) are enacted in OEMs. We also seek stronger evidence to support our premise 
that such microprocesses are meaningful in our cases. Further, we envisage that we must develop 
a tailored analysis frame adapted from earlier work if such knowledge is to be codified in ways that 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
524 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
help OEMs bridge the design-implementation gap of sustainable BM innovation16 (cf. Geissdoerfer, 
Savaget and Evans, 2017). Specifically, this work first addresses calls for in-depth insights into: if 
and how the microprocesses of business modeling described for clean tech startups apply to 
established companies as they shape NBMs; whether roles/forms of experimentation in business 
modeling process are similar, and if and how purposeful interactions take on the role of convincing 
(cf. Bojovic, Genet and Sabatier, 2018). Second, it targets a gap indicating a need (Geissdoerfer et 
al., 2020, p. 12) to examine of the leverage and extension of firm networks, strategic alliances with 
stakeholders (cf. Gulati, 1998), and the role of ecosystem partnerships to achieve CE BM transitions. 
Pursuant to these gaps, an initial guiding question is:  
 
How do (these) organisations apply experimentation to learn, signal and convince key resource 
holders to engage with shifts (from incumbent BMs) to more circular and servitized models? 
 
METHODS 
Understanding dynamics within an industrial setting is a key area for case study application 
(Eisenhardt, 1989). These cases use a qualitative approach to examine the micro-processes of 
experimentation as teams pursue sustainability-oriented BMs within an enfolding organization. 
Longitudinal cases (2021-23) should deliver rich insights into this phenomenon (Flyvbjerg, 2006). A 
process study approach (Langley, 1999, 2007) is chosen pursuant to the processual forms of 
experimentation and BM formation we observe, and to support comparison to related studies 
(McGrath, 2010; Bojovic, Genet and Sabatier, 2018; e.g., Aagaard, Saari and Mäkinen, 2021). 
Analysis will triangulate data from in-depth interviews, participant-observation and archival data as 
internal processes are reconstructed to the present, and followed – and subject to cross-case 
analysis. 
 
INITIAL RESULTS 
While, informed by initial interviews and research interactions/meetings with proponents (>30), 
analysis frames are still under development and results are preliminary. 
 
Processes of experimentation & similarity of roles and forms – We find NBM experimentation for 
learning clearly related to earlier studies, and variously described as: visualization, 
experimentation, mapping, prototyping, co-creation, and value-demonstration. Managers have 
started with questions about NBMs, hypothesized new pathways to value creation, and are 
engaging the environment to learn (see particularly Bojovic, Genet and Sabatier, 2018, p. 148). 
Further, experimentation seek to signal the legitimacy of the incipient BMs so as to convince 
resource holders in the firm, customers, and value chain partners to establish relationships. 
Proponents frame initiatives with sequenced visions for BMs that implement cleaner technologies 
and move towards servitization (Kamal et al., 2020) in ways driven by megatrends. Thus, cases 
 
16 An explicit objective within the Swedish Mistra-funded research programme that support this work; see www.mistrarees.se. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
525 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
appear consistent with ’deliberate experimentation’ (cf. Murray and Tripsas, 2004) pursuing 
strategic alignment to access resources. In contrast to small firms however, we note that these 
OEMs are better positioned to orchestrate activities in the external required for systemic change 
(Lahti, Wincent and Parida, 2018). 
 
Microprocesses in experimentation – While BM microprocesses described for startups are 
recognizable, these cases differ as the incumbent context implicates NBM disruption to firm-
internal business logics and structures. Informants relate how experiments conflict with existing 
assets and BMs (Chesbrough, 2010) and encounter internal political constraints, and/or resistance 
to changes, related to issues such as: sunk costs in resources/assets and specialised personnel; 
inferred changes to firm structure, and redistribution of resources across business units (Hannan 
and Freeman, 1984).  
 
Processes of convincing – Managers relate the importance of experimentation and effectuation, 
and of leadership of organizational change (Chesbrough, 2010) – and see themselves within such 
processes. They describe efforts to establish acceptance/understanding of the emerging or 
potential offerings in the firm and with (existing and potential) value-chain partners. This seen as 
requiring professional organization to demonstrate and communicate achievements, and build 
quality stakeholder relationships (Aldrich and Fiol, 1994; Zott and Huy, 2007). Legitimacy building 
among firm resource-holders based on evidence of value provision appears central, and is 
interpreted as effort(s) to strategically legitimate (Bojovic, Genet and Sabatier, 2018 p. 153) 
ventures.  
 
Firm networks & alliances – Demonstration to stakeholders how core business assumptions may be 
challenged (Doz and Kosonen, 2010) is a common case theme. Each involves specific ‘initiative 
proponents’ or ‘corporate entrepreneurs’ (Burgelman, 1984b, 1984a; Glinyanova et al., 2021) that 
seek to extend the firm's domain-competence via new combinations of internal resources and 
external value chain alliances (Burgelman, 1984a, 1984b). 
 
PRELIMINARY CONCLUSIONS 
We conclude that the OEM cases are rich in the phenomena of experimentation, L,S&C and strategic 
legitimation. Studies of processes in OEMs as they pursue sustainable business value creation thus 
offer novel insights, and earlier studies of how experimentation in nascent firms has addressed 
challenges contribute a firm theoretical foundation. However, we note areas where the form/role 
of experimentation, and how these impact business modelling processes, differ significantly. To 
contribute theoretically to deeper understanding of such processes in incumbents we conclude that 
next steps must pursue two additional areas. First, a focused analysis of where inertial effects, 
tensions with firm logics, political constraints and/or resistance influence how L, S & C activities are 
framed, and how they are used by proponents as they seek resources. Second; the role, and 
function of alliances with existing and new value-chain stakeholders and how they are influenced, 
shaped, and developed by experimentation processes. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
526 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
References 
Aagaard, A., Saari, U.A. and Mäkinen, S.J. (2021) ‘Mapping the types of business experimentation in creating 
sustainable value: A case study of cleantech start-ups’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 279, p. 123182. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.123182. 
Aldrich, H.E. and Fiol, C.M. (1994) ‘Fools Rush in? The Institutional Context of Industry Creation’, The Academy 
of Management Review, 19(4), p. 645. doi:10.2307/258740. 
Andries, P., Debackere, K. and van Looy, B. (2013) ‘Simultaneous Experimentation as a Learning Strategy: 
Business Model Development Under Uncertainty’, Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal, 7(4), pp. 288–
310. doi:10.1002/sej.1170. 
Bocken, N.M.P., Schuit, C.S.C. and Kraaijenhagen, C. (2018) ‘Experimenting with a circular business model: 
Lessons from eight cases’, Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, 28, pp. 79–95. 
doi:10.1016/j.eist.2018.02.001. 
Bojovic, N., Genet, C. and Sabatier, V. (2018) ‘Learning, signaling, and convincing: The role of experimentation 
in 
the 
business 
modeling 
process’, 
Long 
Range 
Planning, 
51(1), 
pp. 
141–157. 
doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2017.09.001. 
Brown, S.L. and Eisenhardt, K.M. (1997) ‘The Art of Continuous Change: Linking Complexity Theory and Time-
Paced Evolution in Relentlessly Shifting Organizations’, Administrative Science Quarterly, 42(1), p. 1. 
doi:10.2307/2393807. 
Burgelman, R.A. (1984a) ‘Designs for Corporate Entrepreneurship in Established Firms’, California 
Management Review, 26(3), pp. 154–166. doi:10.2307/41165086. 
Burgelman, R.A. (1984b) ‘Managing the Internal Corporate Venturing Process’, Sloan Management Review, 
(Winter, 1984), pp. 33–48. 
Chesbrough, H. (2010) ‘Business Model Innovation: Opportunities and Barriers’, Long Range Planning, 43(2–
3), pp. 354–363. doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.010. 
Doz, Y.L. and Kosonen, M. (2010) ‘Embedding Strategic Agility’, Long Range Planning, 43(2–3), pp. 370–382. 
doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.006. 
Eisenhardt, K.M. (1989) ‘Building Theories from Case Study Research’, Academy of Management Review, 
14(4), pp. 532–550. Available at: https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1989.4308385. 
Geels, F.W. (2002) ‘Technological transitions as evolutionary reconfiguration processes: a multi-level 
perspective and a case-study’, Research Policy, 31(8–9), pp. 1257–1274. doi:10.1016/S0048-
7333(02)00062-8. 
Geels, F.W. and Schot, J. (2007) ‘Typology of sociotechnical transition pathways’, Research Policy, 36(3), pp. 
399–417. doi:10.1016/j.respol.2007.01.003. 
Geissdoerfer, M. et al. (2020) ‘Circular business models: A review’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 277, p. 
123741. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.123741. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P. and Evans, S. (2017) ‘The Cambridge Business Model Innovation Process’, 
Procedia Manufacturing, 8, pp. 262–269. doi:10.1016/j.promfg.2017.02.033. 
Glinyanova, M. et al. (2021) ‘Five decades of corporate entrepreneurship research: measuring and mapping 
the field’, International Entrepreneurship and Management Journal, 17(4), pp. 1731–1757. 
doi:10.1007/s11365-020-00711-9. 
Gulati, R. (1998) ‘Alliances and networks’, Strategic Management Journal, 19(4), pp. 293–317. 
doi:10.1002/(SICI)1097-0266(199804)19:4<293::AID-SMJ982>3.0.CO;2-M. 
Hannan, M.T. and Freeman, J. (1984) ‘Structural inertia and organisational change’, American sociological 
review, 49, pp. 149–164. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
527 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Kamal, M.M. et al. (2020) ‘Servitization implementation in the manufacturing organisations: Classification of 
strategies, definitions, benefits and challenges’, International Journal of Information Management, 
55, p. 102206. doi:10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2020.102206. 
Lahti, T., Wincent, J. and Parida, V. (2018) ‘A Definition and Theoretical Review of the Circular Economy, Value 
Creation, and Sustainable Business Models: Where Are We Now and Where Should Research Move 
in the Future?’, Sustainability, 10(8), p. 2799. doi:10.3390/su10082799. 
McGrath, R.G. (2010) ‘Business Models: A Discovery Driven Approach’, Long Range Planning, 43(2–3), pp. 
247–261. doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.005. 
Murray, F. and Tripsas, M. (2004) ‘THE EXPLORATORY PROCESSES OF ENTREPRENEURIAL FIRMS: THE ROLE 
OF PURPOSEFUL EXPERIMENTATION’, in Advances in Strategic Management. Bingley: Emerald (MCB 
UP ), pp. 45–75. doi:10.1016/S0742-3322(04)21002-6. 
Zott, C. and Huy, Q.N. (2007) ‘How Entrepreneurs Use Symbolic Management to Acquire Resources’, 
Administrative Science Quarterly, 52(1), pp. 70–105. doi:10.2189/asqu.52.1.70. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
528 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
New Ventures in the Face of the 
Covid-19 Pandemic: 
A Potential Opportunity for Business Model 
Experimentation for Sustainability 
Kristin Svärd1,*, Patrik Gottfridsson1, Carolina Camén1,  
Linda Bergkvist1,  
1CTF, Service Research Center, Karlstad Business School, Karlstad 
University 
*Kristin.svard@kau.se  
Extended abstract 
The covid-19 pandemic has affected businesses all around the world to varying degrees. The 
pandemic constitutes a change in the external environment of the firm, posing a potential threat 
to the continued operations of businesses. When facing such a change, business model adaptation 
is a potential strategy to overcome the disruption (Ferreira, Proença, Spencer, & Cova, 2013; Zott 
& Amit, 2007). Business model adaptation can be defined as a process of actively aligning a business 
model in response to a change in the external environment (Saebi, Lien, & Foss, 2017). 
If managers perceive a change in the external environment as a potential threat, previous studies 
predict that they will be likely to engage in business model adaptation (e.g. Demil & Lecocq, 2010; 
Saebi et al., 2017). That is, a perceived threat will prompt an active effort to change the business 
model to be better suited for the new environment. If the change in the external environment is 
perceived as an opportunity on the other hand, inertia is supposed to kick in and business model 
adaptation will be unlikely to occur (Saebi et al., 2017). These results draw on prospect theory, 
stating that managers are likely to be risk averse when facing of a potential gain, i.e. an opportunity, 
leading to inaction rather than action, in this case business model adaptation. 
However, as these findings are derived from studies of business model adaptation in large firms 
with long-established operations (Saebi et al., 2017), they might not apply to new ventures, which 
are defined by being in the early years of operation (Zimmerman & Zeitz, 2002). In fact, studies of 
new ventures seem to attribute them with a higher propensity for adaptation, due to the shorter 
decision-processes, less path-dependencies and a more flexible structure (Stoica & Schindehutte, 
1999). New ventures also tend to succeed in a disrupted market, where incumbent firms are 
challenged, and with a business model that is very different than the one launched from the outset 
(Drucker, 2014), meaning that adaptation has occurred. For new ventures, a disruption can 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
529 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
therefore be a potential trigger for faster growth, towards market leadership (Akpan, Udoh, & 
Adebisi, 2020). Thus, new ventures could, compared to incumbent firms, potentially be more likely 
to view the covid-19 pandemic as an opportunity. 
Hence, the question arises as to how the framing of the covid-19 pandemic, as an opportunity or as 
a threat, will impact the potential resulting business model adaptation in new ventures. 
Furthermore, little is known about the mental processes that precede the framing of a change in 
the external environment as a threat or an opportunity (Saebi et al., 2017). A better understanding 
of the reasoning behind managers’ framing of a change in the external environment could explain 
potential differences between existing and new ventures.  
Therefore, the purpose of the study is to bring insights into new venture managers’ mental 
processes that lead to a framing of a change in the external environment, and how that framing can 
act as a potential driver of business model adaptation. Hence, the research question aims to 
understand managers’ underlying mental reasoning that lead to the framing of a change in the 
external environment (as a threat or as an opportunity), and what consequences the framing has 
for the resulting business model adaptation, or lack thereof. In turn, the study contributes to 
understanding whether the previous findings that an opportunity-framing will lead to inertia rather 
than business model adaptation (Saebi et al., 2017), is applicable to new ventures. Previous studies 
have pointed to a novelty-orientation as a driver of business model design and as a determinant of 
performance in entrepreneurial firms, but nothing to our knowledge has been established in terms 
of change-framing and mindset in  new ventures (Zott & Amit, 2007). 
To answer the research question, a qualitative multiple case study has been conducted of ten new 
ventures in Sweden. The new ventures were selected using convenience sampling and comes from 
various industries such as; MedTech, transportation, FinTech, event industry, and marketing. A 
qualitative case study is suitable for creating an in-depth understanding of a phenomenon, such as 
mental processes of managers, providing a rich description in the respondents own words (Patton, 
2014). At the beginning of the pandemic, in late spring and early summer 2020, interviews were 
conducted with the CEO’s of all ten firms. The interviews gave rich insight into the mental reasoning 
of the managers, relating to how they framed the covid-19 pandemic and why. The second part of 
our study consisted of a document analysis, where we followed the development of the new 
ventures and how they responded to the external threat using social media, newspaper articles and 
other publicly available material. Through these means, we were able to create an understanding 
of how the business models changed, or did not change, in response to the changing external 
environment. All data collected was analyzed using the Gioia-approach, aiming at an open-
disposition towards the data in order to create a deeper understanding of the meaning of what is 
stated (Gioia, Corley, & Hamilton, 2013). 
The preliminary analysis of the interviews showed that almost all of the new ventures viewed the 
covid-19 pandemic as a short-term struggle, but a long-term opportunity for their business. The 
preliminary findings also show that an antecedent of how an external change is framed, that is as 
an opportunity or as a threat, is the perceived compatibility between the ethos of the business 
model and the post-change environment. The ethos of the business model, that is the manifested 
purpose, is often mentioned as a crucial factor in sustainable business model development (e.g. 
Bocken & Short, 2016; Stubbs & Cocklin, 2008). The ethos characterizes the fundamental 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
530 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
composition of the business model, and in regards to sustainability, it relates to the social, 
environmental or economic nature of the business model.  
In this case, the preliminary findings show that if the fundamental ethos of the business model was 
viewed as compatible with the post-change environment, the change in the external environment 
is likely to be viewed as an opportunity. Particularly, the companies that had a socially or 
environmentally oriented ethos, tended to have a positive outlook on the business models’ 
compatibility with the post-change environment, compared to a purely economic orientation. As a 
socially or environmentally oriented ethos is aligned with the long-term sustainability trend in the 
market, it was seen as compatible with a so called “new-normal” post-covid-19 environment. These 
findings both support the claim of new ventures having a more positive outlook on potential 
disruptions (Andries & Debackere, 2007; Drucker, 2014), and explains the reasoning behind the 
framing of an opportunity.  
However, contrary to previous findings that suggest that business model adaptation is unlikely 
when an external change is perceived as an opportunity (Saebi et al., 2017), the preliminary findings 
in our study point to new ventures actually engaging in business model adaptation in spite of 
framing the external change as an opportunity. Several of the new ventures studied considered 
some type of business model experimentation. Business model adaptation was in some cases 
considered as a temporary response, meeting transitory needs resulting from the pandemic, but 
for some it was seen as a window of opportunity for business model experimentation that 
sometimes lead to more permanent changes. The changes led some new ventures making 
substantial changes to their business models, while it for other simply meant survival (Balboni & 
Bortoluzzi, 2015). 
These findings add nuance to the previous findings of Saebi et al. (2017), demonstrating that even 
if the ethos of business model is seen as compatible with the longer-term post-change 
environment, and therefore the change is framed as an opportunity, the changing environment can 
still trigger the willingness to experiment with the existing business model and how its components 
interrelate. Furthermore, the findings provide a more granular understanding of how business 
model adaptation relates to the traditional threat/opportunity framing for new ventures, giving 
insights into the mental antecedents for framing a change in the external environment, the role of 
a sustainability-oriented ethos, and the potential business model adaptation outcomes for new 
ventures.  
Although the study might carry limitations in terms of generalizability, managerial implications can 
be derived in terms of the potential benefits from having a more socially and environmentally 
oriented ethos, as it might encourage a positive outlook and ferment opportunities for business 
model experimentation. Future research could focus on better understanding these differences 
between a value-oriented ethos characterizing business model development and a purely financial-
gain-oriented ethos, which was implicated as a foundational factor for viewing the business model 
as compatible with a post-change environment in our study. 
Keywords  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
531 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Business Model Experimentation, Business Model Adaptation, New Ventures, Sustainability, Covid-
19 
References  
Akpan, I. J., Udoh, E. A. P., & Adebisi, B. (2020). Small business awareness and adoption of state-of-the-art 
technologies in emerging and developing markets, and lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Journal of Small Business & Entrepreneurship, 1-18.  
Andries, P., & Debackere, K. (2007). Adaptation and performance in new businesses: Understanding the 
moderating effects of independence and industry. Small business economics, 29(1-2), 81-99.  
Balboni, B., & Bortoluzzi, G. (2015). Business model adaptation and the success of new ventures.  
Bocken, N. M., & Short, S. W. (2016). Towards a sufficiency-driven business model: Experiences and 
opportunities. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, 18, 41-61.  
Demil, B., & Lecocq, X. (2010). Business model evolution: in search of dynamic consistency. Long Range 
Planning, 43(2-3), 227-246.  
Drucker, P. (2014). Innovation and entrepreneurship: Routledge. 
Ferreira, F. N. H., Proença, J. F., Spencer, R., & Cova, B. (2013). The transition from products to solutions: 
External business model fit and dynamics. Industrial Marketing Management, 42(7), 1093-1101.  
Gioia, D. A., Corley, K. G., & Hamilton, A. L. (2013). Seeking qualitative rigor in inductive research: Notes on 
the Gioia methodology. Organizational research methods, 16(1), 15-31.  
Patton, M. Q. (2014). Qualitative research & evaluation methods: Integrating theory and practice: Sage 
publications. 
Saebi, T., Lien, L., & Foss, N. J. (2017). What drives business model adaptation? The impact of opportunities, 
threats and strategic orientation. Long Range Planning, 50(5), 567-581.  
Stoica, M., & Schindehutte, M. (1999). Understanding adaptation in small firms: Links to culture and 
performance. Journal of Developmental Entrepreneurship, 4(1), 1.  
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”. Organization & 
Environment, 21(2), 103-127.  
Zimmerman, M. A., & Zeitz, G. J. (2002). Beyond survival: Achieving new venture growth by building 
legitimacy. Academy of management review, 27(3), 414-431.  
Zott, C., & Amit, R. (2007). Business model design and the performance of entrepreneurial firms. Organization 
science, 18(2), 181-199.  
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
532 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Sustainable Steel: through Industry 
4.0 towards the Ecological Transition 
 
Laura Tolettini1,2, Eleonora di Maria2,  
1Feralpi Holding SpA, Università degli Studi di Padova; 2Università 
degli Studi di Padova  
*laura.tolettini@studenti.unipd.it  
Extended abstract 
As required by the EU (European Union) Green Deal and Climate Action Plan, by 2050, EU industries 
have to fulfill the challenging goal to become a climate neutral economy (European Commission b, 
2021). Requirements (-55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, compared to 1990, +32% 
renewable energy, +32,5% energy efficiency)  will impact EU manufacturers structurally (European 
Commission c, 2021). Energy intensive industries (cement, steel, chemicals), the so-called hard-to-
abate sectors (Energy Transitions Commission, 2018), will experience a significant impact on their 
business models, especially concerning economic viability, due to still experimental technologies 
and energy sources (like hydrogen and carbon capture) (Vogl et. al., 2018). With “Next Generation 
EU - NGEU”, the EU planned 750 billion EUR to support EU industries in their ecological transition 
(Lavallée, 2021), also to cope with the economic difficulties caused by the Covid-19 crisis (European 
Commission a, 2021). NGEU pushes EU manufacturers to sustainable business models, supported 
by Industry 4.0 and digital technologies.  
Experimenting successful sustainable business models challenges industries structurally, pushing to 
build new partnerships in the supply-chain, and to remodel financial feasibility by considering social 
and environmental issues (Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013; Inigo et al., 2017). Actually, sustainable 
business models measure company performance on the so-called triple bottom line, i.e. on the 
economic, social and environmental level (Bocken, 2021), by fostering the convergence of multiple 
stakeholders’ interests (Matos and Silvestre, 2013). Recent research has increasingly developed 
about the key-role of Industry 4.0, the so-called 4th Industrial revolution, as enabler of sustainability 
strategies and sustainable manufacturing (De Marchi and Di Maria, 2020;Stock & Selinger, 2016). 
Industry 4.0 empowers the efficient integration and interconnection of internal production 
processes through cyber-physical systems and digitization, leading to a tighter collaboration among 
different actors in the external ecosystems of manufacturing companies (Büchi et al., 2020). The 
benefits of Industry 4.0 technologies can affect all the triple bottom line dimensions (Kiel et al., 
2017), especially boosting Circular Economy practices (Di Maria, De Marchi, Galeazzo, 2022), in a 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
533 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
perspective of environmental business model innovation (Prieto-Sandoval et al., 2019). However, 
the way to environmental sustainability for manufacturers is still an open experimental path (Bauer 
et al., 2022), and there is room for a deeper research concerning how manufacturing industries are 
pursuing sustainable business models (Frank et al., 2019), especially on the environmental 
dimension, and how Industry 4.0 is really supporting manufacturers in this ecological transition 
(Gabriel and Pessel, 2016). 
We individualized a sector, which is at the moment highly impacted by the EU green economy goals, 
but which has not been widely explored in the transformation required by Industry 4.0 and 
sustainability business models (Liu et al., 2021): the steel sector. Steel industries represent the 
backbone of the European economy and they are the most advanced in the energy intensive sector 
in the opportunities given by environmental sustainability, with the experimentation of 
breakthrough technologies, like hydrogen- and electricity-based metallurgy and carbon capture and 
storage (Eurofer, 2020). Carbon neutrality pushes steel producers to innovate their business model, 
either shifting to completely new production technologies (like induction ovens reducing CO2 
emissions) or diversifying their products range, by integrating their business value proposition 
(Axelson et al., 2021). 
We analyze a specific company case, in order to gain new insights about Industry 4.0 benefits and 
impact on manufacturer business models in the context of sustainable growth (Eisenhardt & 
Graebner, 2007). We focus on the case of Feralpi Group, which is a significant case study and can 
give new insights in the topic, which could be eventually further explored and benchmarked with 
quantitative analysis (Eisenhardt, 1989).  
Feralpi Group is an internationalized leader in steel products for the construction industry and it 
was the first among competitors to voluntarily commit to sustainability reports since 2004. Scrap, 
a continuous recyclable material, is the main raw material of the production cycle, imprinting the 
company business model from the very beginning to sustainability. We employed exploratory semi-
structured interviews to give interviewees a certain degree of freedom to underline possible 
additional aspects on the topic (Cassell and Symon, 2004; Symon and Cassell, 2012). Companies 
were selected based on their level of maturity for Industry 4.0 and sustainability initiatives. We 
pursued a first round of nineteen qualitative interviews, during the period of one month (from 
21.04.21 to 31.05.21). 
Preliminary results underline how Industry 4.0 contributes to the experimentation of sustainable 
business models, especially regarding Circular Economy and democratization strategies. IOT, 
machine learning and Big Data analysis support environmental sustainability in energy efficiency, 
monitoring of CO2 emissions, traceability, optimization of resources and employment of renewable 
materials in an optic of Circular Economy. A constant element in the realization of environmental 
sustainability is experimentation, not only in the employ of prototypal technologies (with no certain 
success, often capital intensive investments, implying high entrepreneurial risk), but especially in 
the relationships of the actors in the supply chain. The most innovative element of experimentation 
in the fulfillment of the ecological transition is the creation of new partnerships in the value chain 
beyond the traditional consolidated business relationship, which is perceived as a great 
opportunity. Evident example of business model experimentation, is the partnership of Feralpi with 
other stakeholders into a company which reuses its production black slag into a certified product 
employed in other sectors. The characteristic of networking seems to unify the concept design of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
534 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
both Industry 4.0 and sustainability. Often these new collaborative networks are generated through 
interpersonal contacts. Engwall et al. (2021) talk about “experimental network”, intended as “a 
group of organizations collaborating in a time-limited, cross-industry network to explore potential 
business models for an anticipated, profound change in sociotechnical systems.” (p.2). Actually, 
what could be observed in our company case is that those new experimental networks are initiated 
to create technological and organizational prototypes, but then they last over the period of 
experimentation and they continue, contributing to a more consolidated framework of business 
projects. Industry 4.0 and sustainability are opening steel industries to new possible business 
models paradigms, where also producers can come closer to the end customers and where 
byproducts can become an employable resource both in the own production cycle and in other 
sectors (Atif et al., 2021). Customers are actually more and more interested in the traceability of 
CO2 emissions, due to norms contingency, and the opportunity to have economic advantages. 
We think our research can contribute to the current literature on sustainable business models, 
which is an open field for incremental and radical innovation (Bocken et al., 2013), being the 
organizational and technological path to environmental sustainability for energy intensive 
industries still an experimentation field. The experimental character of sustainable paths is a 
fundamental element to develop a successful approach of management to business transformation 
and business model innovation (Sosna et al., 2010), and to the successful achievement of ecological 
transition. We acknowledge that results are at the beginning of understanding the paradigms of 
Industry 4.0 and sustainability for energy intensive manufacturers. Further research should go 
deeper on the exploration of success factors of sustainable business models and supply chain 
integration of those industries. 
Keywords 
Industry 4.0, sustainable business models, collaborative experimentation, circular economy, 
ecological transition 
References  
Atif, S. , Ahmed, S., Wasim, M., Zeb, B., Pervez, Z. and L. Quinn (2021). Towards a Conceptual Development of 
Industry 4.0, Servitization, and Circular Economy: A Systematic Literature Review. Sustainability. 13. 
Axelson, M., Oberthür, S., and L.J. Nilsson (2021). Emission reduction strategies in the EU steel industry. 
Implications for business model innovation. Journal of Industrial Ecology. Wiley. 
Bauer, F., Hansen, T., Nilsson, L.J. (2022). Assessing the feasibility of archetypal transition pathways towards 
carbon neutrality – A comparative analysis of European industries. Resources, Conservation and 
Recycling, 177. 
Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P., and S. Evans (2013). A value mapping tool for sustainable business modeling. 
Corporate Governance, 13 (5), 482 – 497 
Bocken, N. (2021). Sustainable Business Models. In: Leal Filho W., Azeiteiro U., Azul, A.M., Brandli, L., Özuyar, 
P., Wall, T. (eds) Decent Work and Economic Growth. Encyclopedia of the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals. Springer, Cham 
Boons, Fr., and Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013). Business Models for Sustainable Innovation: State of the Art and 
Steps Towards a Research Agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
535 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Büchi, G., Cugno, M., and R. Castagnoli (2020). Smart factory performance and Industry 4.0. Technological 
Forecasting and Social Change, Elsevier, Vol. 150 No. June 2019, p. 119790 
Cassell, C., and G. Symon (2004). Essential guide to qualitative methods in organizational research. Sage. 
De Marchi, V., and E. Di Maria (2020). Achieving Circular Economy Via The Adoption Of Industry 4.0 
Technologies: A Knowledge Management Perspective. 163-178E. in Bettiol, M., Di Maria, E., Micelli, 
S. Knowledge Management and Industry 4.0. Springer 
Di Maria, E., De Marchi, V.,  Galeazzo, A. (2022). Industry 4.0 technologies and circular economy: The 
mediating role of supply chain integration. Business Strategy and the Environment. 1-14.ERP 
Environment and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.  
Eisenhardt, K.M. (1989). Building Theories from Case Study Research. The Academy of Management Review, 
Vol. 14, No. 4, pp. 532-550. 
Eisenhardt K.M. and M.E. Graebner (2007). Theory building from cases: opportunities and challenges, 
Academy of Management Journal, 50:1, pp. 25-32. 
Energy Transitions Commission (2018). Mission Possible: Reaching Net-Zero Carbon Emissions from Harder-
To-Abate 
Sectors 
by 
Mid-Century. 
Retrieved 
from 
https://www.energy-
transitions.org/publications/mission-possible/ 
Engwall M., Kaulio, M., Karakaya, E., Miterev, M. and Berlin, D. (2021).  Experimental networks for business 
model innovation: A way for incumbents to navigate sustainability transitions? Technovation 108. 
102330. 
Eurofer (2020). European Steel Association. We are ready-are you? Making a Success of the EU Green Deal. 
Retrieved 
from 
https://www.eurofer.eu/assets/publications/position-papers/a-green-deal-on-
steel-update/2020-10-14-EUROFER-Policy-paper-A-Green-Deal-on-Steel_V5.pdf 
European Commission a (2021). COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2021/2106. Official Journal of 
the European Union. L. 429/83. 
European Commission b (2021). 
Quadro 2030 per il Clima e l’Energia. Retrieved from 
https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/strategies/2030_it#:~:text=Obiettivi%20chiave%20per%20il%2
02030,5%25%20dell'efficienza%20energetica. 
European 
Commission 
c 
(2021). 
2030 
Climate 
Target 
Plan. 
Retrieved 
from 
https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/eu-climate-action/2030_ctp_en. 
Frank, A.G., Mendes, G.H.S., Ayla, N.F., and A. Ghezzi (2019). Servitization and industry 4.0 convergence in the 
digital transformation of product firms: a business model innovation perspective. Technol. Forecast. 
Soc. Change 141, 341–351. 
Gabriel, M., and E. Pessel (2016). Industry 4.0 and sustainability impacts: Critical discussion of sustainability 
aspects with a special focus on future of work and ecological consequences. Annals of Faculty 
Engineering Hunedoara — International Journal of Engineering, 1(16), 131–136. 
Inigo, E.A., Albareda, L., and P. Ritala. (2017). Business model innovation for sustainability: exploring 
evolutionary and radical approaches through dynamic capabilities. Industry and Innovation. 
Routledge. Taylor & Francis Group. 
Kiel, D., Muller, J.M., Arnold, C., and K.I. Voigt. (2017). Sustainable Industrial Value creation: Benefits and 
Challenges of Industry 4.0. International Journal of Innovation Management Vol. 21., No.8 
Lavallée, C. (2021). The European Union’s two-fold multilateralism in crisis mode: Towards a global response 
to COVID-19. International Journal, Vol. 76(1) 17–29. SAGE. 
Liu Y., Li H., An H., Guan J., Shi J., and X. Han (2021). Are the environmental impacts, resource flows and 
economic benefits proportional? Analysis of key global trade routes based on the steel life cycle. 
Ecological Indicators. Vol. 122.  
Matos, S., Silvestre, B. (2013). Managing stakeholder relations when developing sustainable business models: 
the case of the Brazilian energy sector. J. Clean. Prod. 45, 61–73. 
Sosna, M., Trevinyo-Rodríguez, R.N., and S. R. Velamuri (2010). Business Model Innovation through Trial-and-
Error Learning. The Naturhouse Case. Long Range Planning 43, 383-407. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
536 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Symon, G., and C. Cassell (2012). Qualitative organizational research: core methods and current challenges. 
Sage. 
Stock, T, Seliger, G. (2016). Opportunities of Sustainable Manufacturing in Industry 4.0. Procedia CIRP 40, 536-
541.  
Vogl, V., M. Åhman, and L.J. Nilsson (2018). Assessment of Hydrogen Direct Reduction for Fossil-Free 
Steelmaking. Journal of Cleaner Production 203: 736–45. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
537 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Covid-19 impact on sustainable 
consumption: Implications for 
Entrepreneurs Experimenting with 
Zero Waste Stores 
 
Veleva Vesela 
University of Massachusetts Boston 
*Vesela.Veleva@umb.edu 
Extended abstract 
The main goal of this research is to provide empirical data how sustainability entrepreneurs 
currently experiment with innovative business models to reduce consumption by leveraging 
changes in consumer behavior, created by the Covid-19 pandemic. The coronavirus pandemic has 
created unprecedented changes in the society and business operations globally, many of which are 
here to stay. Some researchers see these as an opportunity to foster a transition to a more 
sustainable society with less consumption and waste (Cohen, 2020). In such a transition, business 
model innovation is key, and research has found that entrepreneurs are best positioned to 
experiment with different strategies for product and service delivery, which create both 
environmental, and social benefits (Hockerts & Wustenhagen, 2010). At the same time, “the role 
of business as lever for change through experimentation in sustainability transitions remains 
underexplored,” according to Bocken et. al. (2021). There is a need to better understand the 
opportunities and challenges created by the Covid-19 pandemic, and the tools, processes, and 
dynamic capabilities applied by sustainability entrepreneurs, when experimenting with innovative 
business models for sustainability (Bocken et. al. 2021). 
One example of such experimentation is the emergence of Zero Waste Stores, typically launched 
by entrepreneurs passionate about eliminating waste and plastics. Leveraging the growing 
consumer awareness of waste and its environmental and social impacts (including the impacts on 
climate change), a growing number of zero waste (ZW) stores are emerging around the world and 
in the United States. These stores represent an alternative to the traditional retail stores and 
typically offer reusable packaging (e.g. reusable bags, refillable containers), organic food, ethically 
sourced and fair-trade products, and local sourcing (Beitzen-Heineke et. al. 2017). For instance, 
Boston’s first ZW store, Uvida, was opened in 2020 by Maria Vasco, a young entrepreneur and 
graduate of UMass Boston School for the Environment, who was passionate about eliminating 
plastics and wanted to offer customers packaging-free and plastic-free options (Bremer, 2022). 
Going through several stages of experimentation (from an online only store, to traditional 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
538 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
storefront, to expanding offerings to include plants), the founder has developed dynamic 
capabilities and collaborations which have helped it succeed and open a second store in Boston in 
November 2021. While a niche player, such business model experimentation is key for 
understanding and leveraging emerging consumption trends and opportunities. According to 
Cohen et. al. (2017), in the current capitalist economy where consumption is seen as key to 
economic success, changing the dominant “regime” is challenging and more likely to happen 
gradually through incremental changes in in niches which do not seem to pose any immediate 
threat to dominant institutions. 
Considering that young people, Generation Z and Millennials, represent a major and growing group 
of consumers, it is important to understand how the Covid-19 pandemic might have changed their 
attitudes and behavior in regard to sustainable consumption. Research has found that “Generation 
Z along with Millennials are the most likely to make purchase decisions based on values and 
principles (personal, social, and environmental)” (Petro, 2021). On the other hand, young people 
are driving the new online and “To Go” shopping culture, which is increasing waste and emissions. 
The proposed presentation and related research aim to address the existing research gap on 
sustainable business model experimentation after the coronavirus pandemic and provide empirical 
data from the first Zero Waste Store in Boston, Massachusetts. The study is based on interviews 
with the founder of Uvida (Boston’s first Zero Waste Store) and 137 responses to a 20-question 
survey of undergraduate students enrolled at UMass Boston, USA, and the Economic University in 
Varna, Bulgaria, conducted in April 2021 (the response rate was approximately 80%; or about 80% 
of the students enrolled in the selected courses completed the survey). The research aims to 
explore the following questions: What are the main challenges and opportunities for sustainability 
entrepreneurs focused on reducing consumption and waste after the Covid-19 pandemic? What 
tools, practices, capabilities, and collaborations are leveraged by Uvida Zero Waste store, and how 
does the company articulate and inspire its customers to change their behavior? What is needed to 
scale up emerging Zero Waste stores and move these from a niche to a mainstream business model 
in the future? 
Applying George et. al. (2016) framework for Grand Challenges, the presentation will analyze key 
societal barriers to advancing sustainable consumption, and Uvida’s main lessons learned during 
two years of business model experimentation for sustainability. The author aims to build on 
previous research on business models for sustainability and a study by Sarkis (2020) that reported 
that “associating with external stakeholders during the COVID-19 crisis may result in a transition to 
further supply chain sustainability because it fosters local markets, build community trust, reduces 
risk, and builds resilience”. 
The main contribution of the proposed presentation is that it provides empirical data on business 
model innovation for sustainability transitions, and identifies key enablers, main challenges, and 
future opportunities in scaling up successful business experiments after the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Keywords 
Sustainable consumption, Zero Waste stores, sustainability entrepreneurs, business models for 
sustainability, Covid-19 pandemic 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
539 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
References 
Beitzen-Heineke, E.F., Balta-Ozkan, N., & Reefke, H. (2017). The prospects of zero-packaging grocery stores 
to improve the social and environmental impacts of the food supply chain. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 140, 1528-1541. 
Bocken, N., Weissbrod, I. and M. Antikainenet (2021). Business experimentation for sustainability: Emerging 
perspectives. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production 
(281): 
124904. 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/journal-of-cleaner-production/special-issue/10BJ36TR28Q 
Bremer, S. (2022). Envisioning a Zero-Waste Future: Maria Vasco returns to UMass Boston to discuss how her 
vision became reality by opening Boston’s first zero-waste store. Center for Sustainable Enterprise 
and Regional Competitiveness (SERC), https://www.umb.edu/serc/events1 
Cohen, M. (2020). Does the COVID-19 outbreak mark the onset of a sustainable consumption transition? 
Sustainability: Science, Practice and Policy, 16:1, 1-3, DOI: 10.1080/15487733.2020.1740472  
Cohen, M., H. Brown and P. Vergragt. (2017). Social change and the coming of post-consumer society: 
Theoretical advances and policy implications. Routledge, New York, USA. 
George, G., Howard-Grenville, J., Joshi, A. and Tihanyi, L. (2016). Understanding and tackling societal grand 
challenges through management research. Academy of Management Journal, 59, 1880–95. 
Hockerts, K., Wüstenhagen, R., 2010. Greening Goliaths versus emerging Davids. Theorizing about the role of 
incumbents and new entrants in sustainable entrepreneurship. J. Bus. Ventur. 25 (5), 481e492. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/ j.jbusvent.2009.07.005. 
Petro, G. (2021). Generation Z is emerging as the sustainability generation. Forbes. April 30. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/gregpetro/2021/04/30/gen-z-is-emerging-as-the-sustainability-
generation/?sh=2a85ee298699 
Sarkis, J. (2020). Supply-chain sustainability: learning from the Covid-19 pandemic, International Journal of 
Operations & Production Management Vol. 41 No. 1, 2021 pp. 63-73. 
Uvida. (2022). Welcome to Boston’s First Zero Waste Shop. https://www.uvidashop.com/ 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
540 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
Opportunities for Co-Designing 
Circular Business Models with Game-
Based Approaches 
A literature and practice review 
Katherine A. Whalen1,*, Sara Fallahi1, Sara Renström1,  
Anneli Selvefors1, Erik Einebrant1 
1RISE Research Institutes of Sweden  
*katherine.whalen@ri.se 
Extended abstract 
As a response to growing concerns for the unsustainability of our modern society, Circular Economy 
(CE) promotes a transition away from wasteful, linear modes of production and consumption to 
systems with circular material flows that can significantly improve resource productivity. In a CE, 
firms and users of the firm’s products or services both need to contribute to circular flows of 
products or materials. Firms do so by offering circular products and services through circular 
business models (CBMs), and users do so by being the customers of these CBMs and engaging in 
the three main phases of circular consumption: obtainment of a product, use, and clearance 
(Rexfelt & Selvefors, 2021). Yet, despite the potential benefits that circular solutions represent, 
transition to CBMs has not yet taken off. One reason is the difficulty of creating attractive CBMs 
that encourage a shift to circular consumption patterns and address users’ needs in a satisfactory 
way (Rexfelt & Selvefors, 2021). At the same time, firms appear reluctant to implement CBMs if 
they are not perceived as valuable either in terms of the value captured by the firm or created for 
the user (Hankammer et al., 2019). 
Because of this mismatch between users’ needs and firms’ business offerings, previous research 
emphasizes the importance of creating value propositions that align with CE goals without 
comprising user needs (Tunn et al., 2019). But, to complicate matters, today there is only limited 
understanding of what circular consumption entails for users in their everyday lives and their needs 
(Selvefors et al., 2019). Added complexities for firms when it comes to CBMs include the need for 
multiple value propositions to retrieve products from users and challenges in finding value chain 
actors that can partner with firms to enable CBM offerings; however, there is evidence to suggest 
that one way to address such challenges is through business model innovation (Whalen, Milios & 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
541 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Nußholz, 2018). The process of business model innovation is portrayed as a non-linear process 
based on multiple episodes of cognitive search and experiential learning (Berends et al., 2016). To 
navigate uncertainties and complexities involved, business model innovation scholars often 
highlight the role of design, prototyping, and experimentation (Andries, Debackere & Looy, 2013; 
Sosna, Trevinyo-Rodriguez & Velamuri, 2010). Experimentation allows improving the business 
model elements with limited risks and resources through continuous and collective learning with 
relevant stakeholders (Bocken, Schuit & Kraaijenhagen, 2018).  
 
Several tools and methods for CBM innovation exist, but most have not been empirically tested nor 
widely used in practice (Bocken et al., 2019). Even though existing CBM innovation tools often stress 
that a user perspective can be valuable, e.g., to assess the market potential of CBMs, current tools 
do not show how to gain these user insights or how to successfully transform them into circular 
value propositions (Rexfelt & Selvefors, 2021). Furthermore, existing tools overlook the opportunity 
to create user-centered CBMs through co-design and experimentation with users (van Dam et al., 
2021). Co-design between firms and users is an established method within the design domain to 
create a deep understanding of user needs and better address both current and future (i.e., 
currently unmet) needs (Sanders & Stappers, 2014; Sleeswijk et al., 2005). Co-design requires 
design-oriented research methods that probe the everyday and reveal participants’ ideas about the 
future. But this transformation to designing with users has not been transferred to the domain of 
CE (Lofthouse & Prendeville, 2018), which inhibits the understanding of what circular consumption 
entails for people in their everyday lives cf. (Selvefors et al, 2019) and results in missed 
opportunities for user-centered CBM innovation (van Dam et al., 2021). 
Among the different types of tools that firms can use to support innovation, game-based 
approaches such as gamification (i.e., applying game elements to non-game scenarios) and serious 
games (i.e., standalone games played for purposes other than amusement) have received attention 
within sustainable innovation (Whalen & Kijne, 2019). The reason for this is that game-based 
approaches can help stimulate interaction and engagement (Connolly et al., 2007), encourage 
critical thinking by mimicking complex systems (Whalen et al., 2018), and even encourage changes 
in human behavior (Froehlich, 2015). This research therefore aims to examine how games can 
promote the co-design of CBMs between firms and users by merging perspectives from design and 
business model research. Games’ abilities to facilitate the development of user-centered CBMs 
through co-design with users are assessed through a literature and practice review focused on the 
intersection of CBM tools and participatory design approaches. This analysis seeks to support 
knowledge on tools for CBM experimentation by framing a research agenda to facilitate future 
efforts in the development and use of games for CBM innovation. Gaps in the existing landscape of 
tools are highlighted and the findings suggest there are numerous opportunities where games can 
be used to facilitate experimentation with circular business models, especially in the development 
of circular value propositions.   
Keywords  
Circular business model, business model experimentation, serious games, co-design, gamification 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
542 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
References  
Andries, P., Debackere, K. & Looy, B. (2013) Simultaneous experimentation as a learning strategy: Business 
model development under uncertainty. Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal, 7(4), 288-310. 
Berends, H., Smits, A., Reymen, I. & Podoynitsyna, K. (2016) Learning while (re) configuring: Business model 
innovation processes in established firms. Strategic Organization, 14(3), 181–219. 
Bocken, N.M.P., Schuit, C .S.C . & Kraaijenhagen, C. (2018) Experimenting with a circular business model: 
Lessons from eight cases. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, 28, 79-95. 
Bocken, N., Strupeit, L., Whalen, K. & Nußholz, J. (2019) A Review and Evaluation of Circular Business Model 
Innovation Tools. Sustainability, 11(8), 2210. 
Connolly, T. M., MacArthur, E., Stansfield M. & McLellan, E. (2007) A quasi-experimental study of three online 
learning courses in computing. Computers & Education 49 (2), 345-359. 
Froehlich, J. (2015) Gamifying Green: Gamification and Environmental Sustainability. In: Walz, S. P., 
Deterding, S. (eds.) The Gameful World. MIT Press, pp. 563 – 596. 
Hankammer, S., Brenk, S., Fabry, H., Nordemann, A. & Piller, F.T. (2019) Towards circular business models: 
Identifying consumer needs based on the jobs-to-be-done theory. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
231, 341-358. 
Lofthouse, V. & Prendeville, S. (2018). Human-Centred Design of Products and Services for the Circular 
Economy – A Review. The Design Journal, 21(4), 451–476. 
Rexfelt, O. & Selvefors, A. (2021) The Use2Use Design Toolkit—Tools for User-Centred Circular 
Design. Sustainability, 13, 5397.  
Sanders, L. & Stappers, P. J. (2014) From Designing to Co-Designing to Collective Dreaming: Three Slices in 
Time. Interactions, 21(6), 24–33. 
Selvefors, A., Rexfelt, O., Renström, S. & Strömberg, H. (2019) Use to use – A user perspective on product 
circularity. Journal of Cleaner Production, 223, 1014–1028. 
Sleeswijk Visser, F., Stappers, P. J., van der Lugt, R. & Sanders, E. B. N. (2005) Contextmapping: experiences 
from practice. CoDesign, 1(2), 119–149. 
Sosna, M., Trevinyo-Rodriguez, R. N. & Velamuri, S. R. (2010). Business Model Innovation through Trial and-
Error Learning. Long Range Planning, 43(2-3), 383–407. 
Tunn, V.S.C., Bocken, N.M.P., van den Hende, E.A. & Schoormans, J.P.L. (2019) Business models for 
sustainable consumption in the circular economy: An expert study. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
212, 324-333. 
van Dam, S., Sleeswijk Visser, F. & Bakker, C. (2021). The Impact of Co-Creation on the Design of Circular 
Product-Service Systems: Learnings from a Case Study with Washing Machines. The Design Journal, 
24(1), 25–45. 
Whalen, K.A. & Kijne, G. (2019) Game-Based Approaches to Sustainable Innovation. In: Bocken, N., Ritala, P., 
Albareda, L. & Verburg. R. (eds.) Innovation for Sustainability: Business Transformations Towards a 
Better World. Cham: Springer International Publishing, pp. 375-392. 
Whalen, K.A., Berlin, C., Ekberg, J., Barletta, I., & Hammersberg, P. (2018) ‘All they do is win’: Lessons learned 
from use of a serious game for Circular Economy education. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 
135, 335-345.  
Whalen, K.A., Milios, L. & Nußholz, J. (2018) Bridging the gap: Barriers and potential for scaling reuse practices 
in the Swedish ICT sector. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 135, 123-131. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
543 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 2.3 - New Business Models in an 
International Context 
Track chairs: Svante Andersson, (Halmstad University) 
and Petri Ahokangas (University of Oulu) 
 
Most business model literature does not deal in which countries business models’ value 
creating, delivering and capturing activities are localized or how the internationalization of 
the firm takes place. Especially for new international firms’ localization and 
internationalization decisions are important as these firms must deal with liabilities if 
newness, smallness, foreignness.  
Thus, this track aims at attracting scholars to discuss their current research on sustainable 
business models in an international context. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
544 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Cascading Business Models: A Study 
of Non-Fungible Tokens  
 
Arash Rezazadeh, René Bohnsack 
Católica Lisbon School of Business & Economics 
*arezazadeh@ucp.pt 
Abstract 
This study sets out to explore how Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) are influencing future business 
applications with unique value creation and capture mechanisms. Building on existing theoretical 
insights and learning from real-world examples, we demonstrate how NFTs enable a new business 
model type, which we coin the Cascading Business Model. A clarification of NFTs and related 
concepts, together with their unique use-values and exchange value determinants led us to argue 
that the Cascading Business Model differs from existing business model types. NFT ecosystem 
including the involved stakeholders and relationship levels is analyzed to provide a better 
understanding of how value is created and captured under NFT-based business models. This study 
extends the business model literature by introducing a new business model type that opens novel 
value creation and capture opportunities. Practical applications and prospects for future research 
are also discussed.   
Keywords  
Non-Fungible Tokens, NFTs, use-value, exchange value, business ecosystem, Cascading Business 
Model  
Introduction   
The worldwide emergence of blockchain, as a Distributed Ledger Technology, perhaps dates back 
to the financial crisis of 2007–2008, where centralized payment and monetary systems failed to 
detect and avoid the collapse of the global banking and financial transactions (Ateniese et al., 2017). 
A centralized system relies on a single source of authority responsible for connecting and controlling 
different groups of users whilst in decentralized systems, users have control over their decisions 
and behavior following transparency and public transparency which make the system less prone to 
corruption, failure, and collapse (Kshetri, 2017). The blockchain technology with its decentralized 
structure and promising potentials has been applied to many fields ever since. The first application 
was in the financial transactions that led to the creation of cryptocurrencies (digital forms of money) 
with Bitcoin being the most prominent and widespread decentralized currency system (Notheisen, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
545 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Cholewa & Shanmugam, 2017). Non-Fungible Token (NFT) is perceived as one of the most recent 
and innovative applications of blockchain technology that is revolutionizing different aspects of 
digital asset management systems such as ownership, exchange, investment, traceability, 
protection, and control (Dowling, 2022). 
NFTs came into popular parlance in early 2021, when a digital artwork, called ‘Everydays: The First 
5000 Days’ was traded for $69.3 million as a digital asset containing 5000 images (Valeonti et al., 
2021). The NFT boom continued to even higher trading values with the digital work called ‘The 
Merge’ being sold for $91.8 million on December 2021 (Hale, 2021). According to a report from 
NonFungible.com, the NFT exchange market is experiencing a rapidly rising growth rate as the total 
sales in 2021 reached over $9 billion showing a more than 25-times increase relative to 2020 with 
$340 million. Over the last five years from the first sale back in June 2017, more than 21 million 
NFTs are sold surging the total value to over $14 billion (NonFungible.com).  
The NFT sector signals the genesis of Web 3.0 as the next Internet revolution where everyone is 
able to create and trade digital assets under decentralized governance and control systems 
(Valeonti et al., 2021). Having the current market value of NFTs reached over $9 billion, many 
individuals and businesses have embarked on NFT investments and projects. However, after the 
successful 2021, new controversies are being discussed about potentialities and effects of NFTs 
such as their long-term effectiveness in protecting ownership rights, negative ecological 
consequences, and users’ unwillingness to participate in NFT programs (Morrow, 2022). Adding to 
this the rough and tumble of cryptocurrency markets, concerns have been raised about the 
likelihood that NFT-based businesses may not achieve the potential promises. Therefore, there is a 
timely need to study NFTs and the ways businesses can integrate these digital assets into their 
operations and processes.  
To better approach this research aim, a proper interpretive lens is needed to be employed. The 
business model perspective is of great relevance to the context of NFTs as it has the potential to 
explain how disruptive technologies can stimulate new value creation and capture mechanisms 
(Warner & Wäger, 2019). The theoretical implications of this perspective for studying digital 
transformation technologies in terms of Internet of Things (IoT) (Zhang & Wen, 2017), big data 
analytics (Loebbecke & Picot, 2015), cloud computing (Khanagha, Volberda & Oshri, 2014), and, 
more recently, blockchain technology (Morkunas, Paschen & Boon, 2019) subscribe to the case for 
exploring NFT-based business models. This conceptual paper, therefore, seeks to address the 
questions of what is value in the context of NFTs? And how it is created and captured under NFT-
based business models? 
 
NFTs and related concepts 
An NFT is a virtual certificate of ownership of a digital asset registered in a public ledger and stored 
on a certain blockchain (Dowling, 2021; Regner, Urbach & Schweizer, 2019). NFTs are non-fungible 
aka not mutually interchangeable and each NFT represents one single item owned by a specific 
individual (Rawat, 2021). The non-fungible characteristic of NFTs makes them an alternative 
investment asset to stocks and cryptos (Rossolillo, 2021). NFTs were initially used for digital artwork 
where artists prove ownership of their creations and sell their work in a more innovative way 
(Nadini et al., 2021). Given the nature of NFTs – that they are mutually interchangeable hence 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
546 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
cannot be replaceable by other identical items, a great deal of attention is paid to the creation, 
trade, applications, and implications of NFTs (Nadini et al., 2021). NFTs can be linked to any type of 
digital content such as images, videos, music, pieces of writing, and so on.  
To better understand NFTs, we here define related concepts that should be distinguished from 
NFTs. NFTs differ from blockchain as the latter is a decentralized technology that enables the safe 
and transparent storage and transmission of information in a public database accessible to all 
relevant stakeholders (Kshetri, 2017; Morkunas, Paschen & Boon, 2019). There are several 
providers of blockchain technology that offer different benefits to users. Ethereum (ethereum.org) 
is the leading platform that is being challenged by competitors such as Solana (Solana.com) or Celo 
(celo.org) (Caldarelli & Ellul, 2021). Despite high security and privacy standards, Ethereum is 
criticized for slow transaction speeds and high gas fees (commissions earned for using blockchain 
services) (Geron, 2021). NFTs are traded in specific marketplaces using cryptocurrencies as virtual 
mediums of exchange that use cryptographic techniques to regulate and secure the generation and 
transaction of units of currency (Pilkington, 2016). Bitcoin (BTC) is the most popular cryptocurrency 
with the highest market value followed by ETH (by Ethereum) and Binance Coin (BNB) (Royal, 2022).  
NFT marketplaces are digital platforms where NFTs can be created and traded between the original 
creators, buyers (collectors), and speculators (Martinique, 2021). NFT creation process is called 
‘minting’ under which an NFT is generated and linked to a digital asset through blockchain 
technology (Wilson, Karg & Ghaderi, 2021). OpenSea (opensea.io) is the most popular NFT 
marketplace followed by Rarible (rarible.com) and Mintable (mintable.app) based on their age, 
audience volume, training and support provided, and technology integrations (Brain, 2022). NFT 
marketplaces provide security for transactions and earn commissions on each trading process. To 
be able to trade NFTs, users need to create and fund a crypto wallet with cryptocurrencies. A crypto 
wallet is a virtual bank operated by a third party that stores three main pieces of information, 
namely a public key (virtual account number used for receiving transactions), a private key 
(password used for making the transactions), and a seed phrase (a group of words used for 
accessing the private key) (Yang, 2021). Metamask (metamask.io) and Rainbow (rainbow.me) are 
the most commonly used software crypto wallets while Ledger (ledger.com) and Trezor (trezor.io) 
provide the most popular hardware wallets (Agrawal, 2022).  
NFTs are offered for sale in the marketplace through smart contracts. A smart contract is a 
computer program stored inside a blockchain that serves as an immutable (cannot be changed once 
created) and distributed (the terms of the contract are validated by all the involved parties) digital 
contract (Arora, Kumar & others, 2022). Once pre-defined conditions are met, these contracts are 
self-executed allowing the involved parties to activate their role by receiving or sending crypto 
coins, for example (Chirtoaca, Ellul & Azzopardi, 2020). Compared to traditional, non-smart 
contracts in the real-world, there is no need for third parties to verify authenticity allowing the 
participants to save time and money (Arora, Kumar & others, 2022). Using smart contracts, NFT 
owners are able to trade quickly as the whole process is executed digitally, and hence no paperwork 
is involved (Geroni, 2021). These contracts allow NFT sellers to reserve the right to receive a 
percentage of payments in next aftermarket trading, called NFT royalties (Tunstall, 2021). This 
makes NFTs a potential source of passive income for the genesis or speculators who buy and sell 
NFTs in the hope of making a profit. Figure 1 is a presentation of NFTs and related concepts 
illustrating the processes through which NFTs are created and traded in the marketplace.  
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
547 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 1. NFTs and related trading concepts  
 
NFTs’ Use-Values   
To better understand the novelty of NFTs, we disentangle their ‘use-value’ and ‘exchange value’ 
(Bowman & Ambrosini, 2000; Lepak, Smith & Taylor, 2007). Any specific quality or feature of an 
offering that reflects customer needs is recognized as ‘use-value’ whilst ‘exchange value’ represents 
the amount paid by the customer for receiving the offering and its use-values (Bowman & 
Ambrosini, 2000). The application of these concepts to the understanding of NFT-based business 
models leads to a better conceptualization of how value is created and captured within NFT 
ecosystems.  
Due to the unique nature of NFTs, different types of use-value can be identified. First, they provide 
the creators of digital content with the possibility to certify ownership and trading rights, protecting 
legal and regulatory values (Jones, 2021). Digital content can be anything that is created, stored, 
and accessed virtually (Clark, 2021), including media files such as a piece of writing presented in a 
Microsoft WORD or PDF file, music recordings in MP3 formats, static or dynamic images as JPEG or 
GIF covers, video files, and any other forms of virtual creations (Dowling, 2021). Using a platform 
such as Opensea.io, the digital artists can mint an NFT and link it to their digital artwork to be stored 
and monitored as encrypted blocks of data in a blockchain (Howcroft, 2021). This makes the history 
of the asset transparent and unchangeable so that its original creation and following trading 
practices are known to anyone (Concas, 2021). Granted that NFTs are not-fungible, they prove 
ownership of verifiable digital contents that can be easily traded on the blockchain (Goodwin, 
2021). Mike Winkelmann, the creator of the Consecutive Days collection, Trevor Jones the creator 
of the Bitcoin Angel, and Micah Dowbak, the artist behind the Replicator project are among the 
most successful artists using NFTs for their artwork (Nambiampurath, 2021). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
548 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
What makes the ownership and trading agreement of NFTs easy and secure is that they are 
recorded in immutable and transparent smart contracts on a blockchain (Arora, Kumar & others, 
2022). Contract terms as lines of code available in the blockchain are automatically activated 
provided certain conditions obtain (Chirtoaca, Ellul & Azzopardi, 2020). These functional value 
benefits have facilitated the trading of digital content as the whole process is executed digitally, 
and hence no paperwork is involved. Besides, human error is minimized decreasing the risk of 
financial loss on NFT project success (Geroni, 2021). Apart from speed and accuracy, security is 
enhanced in NFT projects granted that every transaction is recorded on the blockchain under a 
transparent ledger that is accessible to all participants in real-time and therefore the output cannot 
be miss-presented for personal advantage (Rawat, 2021). Security in NFT projects can be further 
enhanced in various ways. For instance, crypto wallet providers like D’CENT have recently 
introduced hardware wallets with built-in fingerprint scanner to avoid the risk of hackers and secure 
the transactions of NFTs.  
Concerning economic values, NFT creators earn a percentage of the sale price each time the NFT is 
sold on a marketplace as royalties. The percentage amount is recorded in the smart contract as a 
condition determined by the creator (Gomez, 2021). The creator of the ‘Everydays: The First 5000 
Days’, for example, receives 10% each time the NFT is traded in the marketplace. Royalties, as 
passive income for digital content creators, increase the value of the digital content. Compared 
with physical products that, in general, devalue over time, NFTs have the potential to provide the 
creator with more earnings in the long-run.  
Another use-value of NFTs is the possibility to represent people’s social status in the online world 
and sharing emotional value (Locke, 2021). Users of social media, for example, link their profile 
pictures to NFTs showing their standing in relation to other users within the network (Lu, 2021). 
Given the non-fungibility of NFTs, they are used as unique virtual identities registered in a 
blockchain so that no one else is able to claim the same identity in the virtual world (Clark, 2021). 
A person that owns an NFT rarer and more unique than the others, can claim a more important 
social status within the community (Marques, 2021). Mike Tyson bought the Cool Cats NFT for his 
Twitter profile picture receiving about 9,000 likes and 1,800 retweets (Sniper, 2021). This use-value 
is core to NFTs as a “signaling” device in the metaverse. Comparable to a Rolex or Porsche in the 
real world, NFTs allow signaling in Web 3.0.  
NFTs also promote social values as they enable the digital content creators to build and grow their 
community of users that can be leveraged to ensure the success of future projects and 
developments (Regner, Urbach & Schweizer, 2019). Taking the game industry as an example, the 
developers release visualizations of the in-game characters in NFT marketplaces before the launch 
of the game. For instance, Illuvium.io is an open-world role-playing game to be released in 2022 
that is already offering its game character NFTs in the marketplace to help the community expand 
and receives attention.  
NFTs can be used for membership access providing a selected group of users with privilege rights. 
As an example, after the purchase of NFTs, fans are able to interact with their favorite artists 
through a direct communication channel. Event organizers can use NFTs for registration and 
identification of attendees. Another case in point is digital passports issued as NFTs to grant 
citizenship and access to metaverse-like virtual worlds (MetaNFT, 2021). Also, the freemium model 
can be adopted using NFTs so that basic services are offered to all users for free while premium 
features are unlocked only for NFT buyers (Crook, 2021). Official, the fashion producer 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
549 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
(theofficialbrand.com) is an example of using NFTs to grant exclusive access to selected physical 
products and after-sale services (Meiklejohn, 2021). With the success of its NFT business, the 
company has developed its own cryptocurrency token, called $OFCL.  
Finally, NFTs can be attached to physical products to generate secondary revenue streams. This can 
be done in two ways. First, the digital NFT is created and used for trading the real-world physical 
asset (such as a portrait painting) so that all the ownership rights can be transferred to the NFT 
owner (Li & Kassem, 2021). This method is used by custody service providers where the settlement, 
safekeeping, and reporting of a valuable physical asset is handled through the use of NFTs attached 
to the asset. Secondly, the NFT can be treated as a separate commodity that can be priced, bought, 
and sold independently of the transmission of the ownership of the respective physical asset 
(Lydiate, 2021). In the latter case, the owner of the NFT can be different from the owner of the 
respective physical asset whilst the two are assumed to be the same in the former. Finally, if the 
asset is traded successfully, higher royalties are received leading to a cascaded exchange value. 
A case in point is the launch of new products where the corresponding NFTs can be offered 
beforehand so that the buyers will get a limited number of products before the main launch. If the 
NFT sale gets a quick sell out, the new physical product is more likely to be successful in the market 
(Online Retail, 2022). Adidas has launched an NFT project, called ‘Into the Metaverse’ where NFT 
buyers will be able to get limited-run new product drops. Studying ratings, likes, and dislikes of each 
NFT, the company gets to know about most desirable design patters for future products in the real 
world (Kastrenakes, 2021). This use-value has led to the emergence of physical NFTs referring to 
physical assets with tokenized ownership (Mitchell, 2021). Thus, the ownership of a physical asset 
can be transferred through the trading of its respective NFT in an NFT marketplace. 
Table 1 provides an overview of NFT use-values with relevant examples from real world 
applications.  
Table 1. NFT use-values 
NFT use-
values 
Value types 
Applications 
Notable examples 
References 
Certify 
ownership 
rights of digital 
content 
Legal and 
regulatory 
value 
Digital art 
Mike Winkelmann, the 
creator of the 
Consecutive Days 
collection 
(Nambiampurath, 
2021) 
Represent 
people’s social 
status in the 
online world 
Emotional 
value 
Social media  
Mike Tyson and Cool 
Cats NFT 
(Sniper, 2021) 
Facilitate the 
trading of 
digital content 
with more 
speed and 
accuracy 
Functional 
value 
Marketplaces 
Opensea.io (NFT 
largest marketplace) 
(Howcroft, 2021) 
Secure the 
collecting and 
trading of 
digital content 
Functional 
value 
Crypto wallet 
providers  
D’CENT 
(dcentwallet.com) 
(Jovanović, 
2022) 
Provide 
royalties for 
trading of 
digital content 
Economic 
value 
Aftermarket 
trading 
Mike Winkelmann 
receives 10% each 
time his NFTs are 
(Howcroft, 2022) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
550 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
in the 
aftermarket 
traded in the 
marketplace. 
Provide 
membership 
access to a 
selected group 
of users 
Functional 
value 
Fashion industry  Official 
(theofficialbrand.com) 
(Meiklejohn, 
2021) 
Build and grow 
a virtual 
community of 
users  
Social value 
Gaming industry 
Illuvium.io 
(Conway, 2022) 
Link virtual 
assets to 
physical 
products 
Functional 
and 
economic 
value 
Launch of new 
products 
Adidas 
(Kastrenakes, 
2021) 
 
NFTs’ Exchange Values   
NFT transactions are increasingly growing. According to NonFungible.com, a volume of between 
15,000 and 50,000 NFTs are sold per week showing the potential interest of NFTs for investors. 
What makes NFTs stand out from other assets, apart from their unique use-values, is that they can 
be exchanged later at a higher value. In Opensea marketplace, the exchange value of an NFT varies 
from 0.02 ETH (equal to 50  US Dollar) to 5000 ETH (12 million US Dollar) at the time of writing. 
Table 2 presents a list of NFTs with highest exchange value.   
Table 2. NFTs with highest exchange values 
NFTs with highest 
exchange value  
NFT image 
Current 
exchange value 
(US Dollar) 
Trading channel  
‘The Merge’ by 
Murat Pak, known 
as Pak 
91.8m 
NFT was sold in an 
open edition via Nifty 
Gateway 
(niftygateway.com) 
‘Everydays: the First 
5000 Days’ by Mike 
Winkelmann, known 
as Beeple 
 
69.3m 
NFT was auctioned by 
Christie's Auction 
House (christies.com) 
‘HUMAN ONE’ by 
Beeple  
$30m 
NFT was auctioned by 
Christie's Auction 
House (christies.com) 
‘CryptoPunk #7523’ 
by Larva Labs 
Studio, the creator of 
the CryptoPunks 
collection 
$11.75m 
NFT was sold in 
Opensea marketplace 
(opensea.io) 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
551 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The huge difference between the highest and lowest NFT exchange value raises the question of 
how the exchange value is determined and why some NFTs come at higher prices than others? 
Several factors determine the exchange value of an NFT. First, the digital content represented by 
an NFT distinguishes one from the other. Whether it reflects a digital art or piece of writing, the 
higher the quality and uniqueness of the content, the higher the exchange value would be (Clark, 
2021). If the NFT is attached to something unique - a valuable asset in a metaverse (a 3D virtual 
shared world), for example, its exchange value can increase dramatically provided the metaverse 
grows (Dailey, 2021). Another example is an NFT attached to a video game character to be launched 
in the future. The game’s popularity and reputation among users increase the chances that the 
related NFTs will be exchanged at a profitable value (Rawat, 2021). NFT use cases are important in 
this regard: An NFT that provides access to information about the sophisticated manufacturing 
process of a certain product, for example, can be exchanged at a higher value than that of a simple 
jpeg file.  
An NFT is also valued based on its creator/owner so that the more famous and well-known the 
creator/owner, the more expensive the NFT (Locke, 2021). Therefore, an NFT of a creator who has 
a history of generating and selling highly-priced NFTs is more likely to be valued and supported. 
Besides, the buyers might value the community supporting the NFT team of creators. The more 
engagement that the community members expose in online spaces, such as social media, the more 
likely that the NFT project receives attention and further support (Regner, Urbach & Schweizer, 
2019). Table 3 provides an overview of the main factors influencing an NFT exchange value.  
Table 3. Factors influencing NFTs’ exchange value 
Factors  
Effect  
Notable examples 
References 
The digital content’s 
quality 
The higher the 
quality of the 
content, the higher 
the exchange value 
would be 
‘Everydays: the First 5000 
Days’ NFT represents an 
artwork that joins 5000 
images taken from Day 1 (1 
May 2007) to Day 5000 (7 
January 2021) into a single 
digital collage. 
(Valeonti et al., 
2021) 
The digital content’s 
uniqueness and 
rarity 
The more unique 
and rare the content, 
the higher the 
exchange value 
would be 
 ‘CryptoPunk #7523’ NFT is 
the only character in the 
CryptoPunks collection 
(containing 10000 NFTs) 
that wears a face mask, 
symbolizing the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
(Hale, 2021) 
NFT’s attachment 
to something 
valuable 
If an NFT is 
attached to 
something valuable, 
its exchange value 
is likely to be high  
Axie #1046 NFT that was 
sold at 300 ETH (currently 
1.1 million USD), is 
attached to an in-game 
character in Axie Infinity 
digital game. 
(Dailey, 2021) 
NFT’s 
creator/owner 
The more famous 
and well-known the 
creator/owner, the 
more expensive the 
NFT 
The creator of the ‘HUMAN 
ONE’ NFT was well-known 
for his previous highly-
priced NFT artwork. 
(Hale, 2021) 
The community 
supporting the 
NFT’s team of 
creators 
The more 
engagement that the 
community 
members expose, 
the more likely that 
Bored Ape Yacht Club 
project has an active 
community of users in 
social media supporting the 
release of new NFTs 
(Boom, 2022) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
552 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the NFTs gain 
higher exchange 
value 
 
NFT ecosystem  
With NFTs’ unique use-values and innovative exchange value adding mechanisms, many businesses 
are encouraged to join the NFT ecosystem that includes stakeholders involved in NFT markets and 
the relationships developed among them (Conte, 2021). An NFT ecosystem evolves around the 
trading parties, namely creators, owners, buyers, sellers, and speculators of digital assets which 
interact with each other through intermediaries (Wilson, Karg & Ghaderi, 2021). The creating 
parties, who directly benefit from NFTs, are active in certain industries and domains namely, 
gaming, art and music, sports, collectibles, and metaverse (Regner, Urbach & Schweizer, 2019).  
Intermediaries include the organizers of marketplaces that determine the rules and regulations of 
how NFTs are traded, the providers of infrastructure (blockchain-based platforms), the portfolio of 
cryptocurrencies, and crypto wallet services (Farrier, 2021). Intermediaries, whether technical 
intermediaries (such as blockchain providers), or business intermediaries (such as marketplace 
organizers) determine the conditions under which the main parties can trade NFTs (Regner, Urbach 
& Schweizer, 2019). For example, NFT marketplace providers regulate the trading terms and 
conditions under blockchain-based smart contracts to ensure security in value exchange and 
enhance transparency in transactions (Arora, Kumar & others, 2022). Another intermediary group 
is the providers of additional services. For example, those who release news and updates on NFT 
markets supported by analytics and AI technologies (Rodriguez, 2021).  
The trading group consisting of creators, buyers, speculators, and the community interact with each 
other within NFT marketplaces. The community, in particular grows through online presence of 
users in social media consistent data sharing and inter-user communications. The trading 
mechanisms however are generated solely by utilizing cryptocurrencies, which are enabled by 
blockchain technology. Thus, the NFT ecosystem is permeated by blockchain technology and new 
members, such as crypto wallet generators can join the network providing added-value services to 
the existing members of the ecosystem. A mapping of NFT ecosystem is presented Figure 2. A clear 
understanding of the ecosystem helps the newcomers to detect promising opportunities and better 
decide on entry strategies (Heine, 2020). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
553 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 2. NFT ecosystem including the involved parties and relationship levels 
 
Cascading Business Models  
 
NFTs’ unique use-values, their innovative exchange value adding mechanisms, and dynamic 
ecosystem of involved parties put forward a new type of business model that allows the companies 
to change the attached exchange value of their offerings at a later stage that is cascading value over 
time. As mentioned earlier, this process depends on certain factors and conditions such as if the 
NFT receives attention or the creator gains reputation. It also depends on the size and development 
of the community.  
To illustrate how NFTs allow a new type of business model, we build on Baden-Fuller et al. (2017)’s 
business model typology as it places a particular focus on provider-consumer relationships beyond 
the boundaries between the firm and its customers, which makes it ideal to explain NFT business 
models. Rather than hierarchical upside-down structures, the demand-side and supply-side input-
output models are analyzed in the typology to explain how business models differ in the ways the 
provider interacts with the consumer.  
According to Baden-Fuller et al. (2017), there are four important and mutually exclusive types of 
business models, namely dyadic product, dyadic solutions, triadic matchmaking, and triadic 
multisided business models. The first pair of business models (dyadic) involves two actors, namely 
provider, and consumer. The dyadic product business model reflects the traditional seller-buyer 
scenario where the two actors have limited interaction; the producer supplies the product in the 
market and the consumer obtains use-values after purchase. The dyadic solution business model 
includes more active participation of customers within the product development processes. The 
consumer, here, rather than consuming separately, co-creates value to help the company come up 
with a solution (Baden-Fuller et al., 2017). The second pair of business models (triadic) puts third 
parties into the equation. The triadic matchmaking business model centers around matchmakers 
(i.e., brokerage firms) that create value by reducing consumers’ search efforts and increasing 
producers’ market access. The triadic multi-sided business model involves a focal firm that 
establishes complementarities among multiple unconnected customer groups, namely consumer 
beneficiaries, and paying-customers. Consumer beneficiaries receive value by using a product or 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
554 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
service that is free or subsidized by the paying-customers and, in turn, the paying-customers benefit 
from the consumer beneficiaries using the product or service (Baden-Fuller et al., 2017).  
Given the possibilities that NFTs offer to cascade value over time, NFT-based business models do 
not fit into the existing typologies. This new type of business model, which we coin the “Cascading 
Business Model” enables the firms to expand their value creation and capture scope as the value 
exchange of their offerings can increase over time. Attaching NFTs to physical products or services, 
new use-values are generated in the virtual world. Customers can use NFTs to claim ownership of 
the purchased products or as their virtual identity in social media. Alternatively, the purchased NFT 
can be treated as an investment asset to be traded later at a higher value. Each trading activity 
afterward adds value to the creator of the NFT (i.e., the firm) as earning royalties are received. Thus, 
NFTs provide businesses with a potential source of value that cascades over time if conditions are 
met. Figure 3 below illustrates the value cascading process in NFT-based business models. As can 
be seen in the figure, the cascaded value is determined by several key factors. If the NFT and its 
creator attract attention, if the community behind the NFT expands, and if the asset performs well 
in the market leading to higher royalties, the exchange value cascades more rapidly.  
 
 
Figure 3. Cascading Value in NFT-based Business Models 
 
The main actors involved in the Cascading Business Model, namely the provider (company), 
consumers, technical intermediaries, and business intermediaries do not fit into dyadic or triadic 
business models. Here, the relationship between the provider and its customers is different from 
that in dyadic models in the sense that the cascaded value (of NFTs) depends on value co-creation 
activities of both the provider (NFT creator) and customers (NFT buyers). Therefore, unlike the 
dyadic product business model, customers play a key role in the company’s value capture potential. 
In addition, the interaction between the company and its customers continues to grow after the 
purchase of the offering (due to the nature of the offering, that is a blockchain-enabled digital asset) 
different from the dyadic solution business model. Concerning the triadic business models, the 
multiple groups of intermediaries involved in Cascading Business Models do more than just connect 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
555 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
consumers with suppliers that are the case in triadic matchmaking business models. Moreover, the 
interactions among different groups of intermediaries in Cascading Business Models (marketplace 
organizer, infrastructure provider, cryptocurrency suppliers, and crypto wallet services) are more 
dynamic than the relationship between consumer beneficiaries and paying-customers in triadic 
multisided business models.  
The Cascading Business Model offers different kinds of use and exchange values to the company 
and its customers than the existing business models. The incorporation of blockchain technologies 
into customer relationship management leads to major cost savings due to decreased paperwork. 
Moreover, the increased accuracy and transparency enabled by smart contracts attract more 
customers into purchasing the company’s offerings. No other business model can make consumers 
as endogenous to the firm as the Cascading Business Model does thanks to specific mechanisms 
designed for earning royalties. This new type of business model provides the firm and its customers 
with mutually valuable selling advantages as the market success of a company’s offerings adds 
value to all customers as well. Hence, both the provider and its customers benefit from a profitable 
sale simultaneously. Under the Cascading Business Model, firms have the chance to develop value 
propositions characterized with the potential to gain added value over time. This business model 
also enables the firms’ ability to build and nurture virtual communities of users that co-create value 
within metaverse environments.  
Another unique feature of the Cascading Business Model is the possibility to authenticate and 
authorize access to certain privileges for customers. Unlike the other types of business models 
where the access is granted via membership plans, the value proposition here is a non-fungible, 
highly liquid asset holding greater use-value than existing membership schemes. The granted asset 
in Cascading Business Model can be traded later so that the premium rights can be transferred to 
the new owner. The current membership plans however are limited to only providing access to 
basic versions of products or services for free and charge for premium versions with additional 
functionalities or advanced features (the freemium model). Besides, the membership enrollments 
come with certain expiry dates whereas the NFT-based asset will be stored in the blockchain 
permanently.  
With existing business models, there is only a limited potential for value capture while the 
Cascading Business Model opens the possibility to achieve greater value from the same offering 
over time. This new type of business model provides customers with the opportunity to co-create 
cascaded value with the company. Thus, there is no clear-cut boundary between the company and 
its customers as in the case of dyadic or triadic business models. Having the blockchain technology 
onboard, there are no hierarchies, but rather decentralized systems that promote free flows of 
information within transparent digital ecosystems.  
Based on the above, we present a comparison of the Cascading Business Model with existing dyadic 
and triadic business model types in Table 4 below. 
Table 4. Cascading Business Model Compared with Existing Business Model Types 
 
Dyadic business 
models 
Triadic business models 
Cascading Business 
Model 
Ecosystem 
members 
Company and 
customers 
Company, customers, 
and third-parties 
(matchmakers, 
Company, customers, 
and intermediaries 
(technical and business) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
556 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
customer beneficiaries, 
and paying-customers) 
Use-values 
Consumers obtain 
value during (with 
the help of provider) 
and after the 
purchase 
Consumers obtain value 
with the help of third-
parties 
Consumers obtain value 
by gaining access to 
specific resources and 
services 
Exchange 
value 
Exchange value 
does not cascade 
over time 
Exchange value does 
not cascade over time 
Exchange value 
cascades over time 
Value creation 
Develop products or 
services to meet 
consumer needs 
Connect consumers 
with providers and other 
ecosystem members 
Integrate NFT and block-
chain technology into 
business operations and 
processes 
Value capture 
The sale of products 
or services 
Charge commission for 
facilitating the 
interaction among 
ecosystem members 
- The sale and trade of 
digital assets 
- Earning royalties 
 
Practical Applications 
As suggested in this study, NFTs open up promising opportunities for businesses to capture 
cascaded value from their offerings. In this section, we present two examples to illustrate how value 
cascades under this new business model. The first example shows a typical application of NFTs in 
the gaming space where video game companies are investing heavily in NFT-centric games. In NFT 
games, in-game items such as characters, player avatars, outfits, and weapons are tokenized into 
NFTs, and players (as NFT owners) can trade them in NFT marketplaces. NFT games have gained 
wide popularity among players due to their play-to-earn promise allowing users to actually earn 
money by playing games. Axie Infinity developed by Sky Mavis Studio is a notable example of NFT-
based games that is regarded by many as a revolutionized version of Pokémon. The game is inspired 
by the CryptoKitties game that was one of the earliest projects to take advantage of blockchain 
technology in the gaming industry. Axie Infinity however offers more entertainment and earning 
opportunities. Players begin with buying, raising, and even breeding ‘Axies’ (digital characters 
resembling Pokémons) and then battle with other players using their army of Axies. The winner of 
a battle receives SLP cryptos but higher earnings are obtained by trading Axies (as NFTs) in NFT 
marketplaces. This business model paves the way for game studios to attract more players and 
capitalize on their engagement to cascade the exchange value of their own cryptocurrency tokens 
as the game receives popularity and interest among communities of video game players.  
The second example illustrates the application of NFTs in the wine industry. The case of NFT wine 
brands is of particular relevance as it demonstrates how NFTs are increasingly extending beyond 
digital art, gaming, or music domains. In 2021, the wine marketplace platform, Vinsent 
(wineries.vinsent.wine) partnered with HelloFam (hellofam.wine), the first NFT Wine Club to 
combine collectible grape illustrations as NFTs with physical wine collections in the real world. As 
the first project, the Hello Fam Genesis Vintage 2021 wine collection to be released in Spring 2022 
has been tokenized with unique NFTs from HelloFam. As such, the buyer of one HelloFam NFT will 
receive a 6-bottle case of Genesis Vintage upon release. The project began with a great success of 
selling 250 wine cases over the first release day of respective NFTs in august 2021 (DeSimone & 
Jenssen, 2021). Under this business model, customers receive the physical wine after buying the 
attached NFT. As can be seen in Figure 4, each wine collection is recognized with a unique NFT 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
557 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
registered on a blockchain and the exchange value of the same collection can be cascaded later in 
sync with the NFT cascaded value. This hints at immense opportunities that NFTs provide to 
businesses allowing the ability to cascade the physical offerings’ exchange value over time. 
 
  
Figure 4. HelloFam Business Model Representation 
Discussion and Conclusion 
This paper sets out to explore how NFTs are shaping the future of businesses with unique value 
creation and capture mechanisms. Analyzing theoretical contributions and learning from real-world 
examples, we arrived at a new business model type, called the Cascading Business Model. We argue 
that blockchain-enabled NFTs are a potential source of value that cascades over time if conditions 
are met. The analysis of NFTs’ unique use-values, as well as the factors determining their exchange 
value, led us to argue that the Cascading Business Model differs from existing business model types. 
We explored the NFT ecosystem identifying the involved parties and their relationships to explore 
how value is created and captured in the Cascading Business Model.  
Our study contributes to the business model literature (Massa, Tucci & Afuah, 2017; Zott, Amit & 
Massa, 2011; Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010) by exploring the context of NFTs. We extend the 
existing business model types (Baden-Fuller et al., 2017) by introducing the Cascading Business 
Model which provides new dispersed ways of value creation and capture compared to existing 
business model perspectives that view value and the firms as a ‘whole’ (Bowman & Ambrosini, 
2000). Our affirmations accelerate future research on NFTs within the business/ management 
discipline. We find NFTs as one-of-a-kind digital assets that can be further realized in strategic 
management perspectives such as the Resource-Based View. The unique features of NFTs make 
them a key source of competitive advantage not only because their exchange value can be cascaded 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
558 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
over time, but also they enable imitable, and non-substitutable value creation mechanisms thanks 
to blockchain technology (Arora, Kumar & others, 2022; Wang et al., 2021; Wilson, Karg & Ghaderi, 
2021; Valeonti et al., 2021). Revenue enhancement opportunities provided by NFTs extend the 
current business model theories beyond the traditional focus on physical value propositions. 
Additionally, the unique characteristics of NFT ecosystems demonstrate new directions for the 
development of the Stakeholder Theory where decentralized governance and control structures 
influence the interconnected relationships between a business and its stakeholders from customers 
and communities to suppliers and investors (Donaldson & Preston, 1995). The concept of NFTs 
relates closely to the basic argument of the Stakeholder Theory that a firm should create value for 
all stakeholders, not just shareholders (Freeman et al., 2010).  
Finally, we end the paper by proposing several future research directions. The Cascading Business 
Model can be further conceptualized and operationalized exploring the constituent building blocks 
and underlying interdependences. Future research can explore different configuration patterns of 
the Cascading Business Model elements and how they influence business performance. More 
research needs to be undertaken to explore the ways NFT-based business models differ from 
blockchain-based ones and the role of blockchain technologies in the design and implementation 
of NFT-based business models. Viewing this new business model as an organizational process, 
future research can look into antecedents as well as consequences of the transition towards NFT 
business models. How NFTs can trigger new business models in different industries like fashion or 
real estate remains a topic of research interest. Further, how NFTs and blockchain technology can 
contribute to sustainable development in social and environmental aspects? How governments and 
public authorities can benefit from NFTs?  
New types of organizations derived from the transition to blockchain-based NFTs can be studied. 
Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) represent one such organizational form typified 
by the use of cryptocurrencies, blockchain technology, and NFTs. DAOs operate by a group of 
stakeholders with no pre-specified hierarchy. The rules of governance are encoded in smart 
contracts that are stored in a blockchain available to all. This eliminates the need for a central 
leadership and encourages the stakeholders to participate in the ecosystem more proactively. DAOs 
challenge traditional views of business management systems such as leadership style, 
organizational structure, and culture. Here, instead of a board of managers who make the decisions, 
users interact with each other to define the rules and regulations that determine the future 
directions of the organization. How this new form of organization shapes the future of businesses 
remains a question of lively debate.   
The study also helps practitioners make sense of NFT-based business models and highlights 
potential value capture opportunities for different parties involved in NFT ecosystems. The 
identified use-values of NFTs provide managers with insight into effective sensing of customers’ 
needs. Our affirmations based on real-world examples hint at practical ideas for proactively 
interacting with customers and engaging them in new product/service development processes. We 
also highlighted that businesses need to be aware of factors influencing NFTs’ exchange value 
minimizing the risks and barriers of the transition towards this new business model. 
References  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
559 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Agrawal, H. (2022) The Top 12 Best Ethereum Wallets (2022 Edition). [Online]. Available from: 
https://coinsutra.com/best-etherum-wallets/. 
Ampva 
(2021) 
A 
Beginner’s 
Guide 
to 
NFTs 
for 
Crypto 
Art. 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://artmoneyprovenance.com/2021/07/21/a-beginners-guide-to-nfts-for-crypto-art/. 
Arora, A., Kumar, S. & others (2022) Smart Contracts and NFTs: Non-Fungible Tokens as a Core Component 
of Blockchain to Be Used as Collectibles. In: Cyber Security and Digital Forensics. Springer. pp. 401–
422. 
Ateniese, G., Magri, B., Venturi, D. & Andrade, E. (2017) Redactable blockchain--or--rewriting history in 
bitcoin and friends. In: 2017 IEEE European symposium on security and privacy (EuroS\&P). 2017 pp. 
111–126. 
Baden-Fuller, C., Giudici, A., Haefliger, S. & Morgan, M. (2017) Business models and value: Analytical 
comparisons of scalable solutions and digital platforms. In Academy of Management Annual Meeting 
2017. Atlanta, U, 1–31. 
Bolton, 
E. 
(2021) 
6 
ways 
your 
brand 
could 
use 
NFTs. 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://yonderconsulting.com/6-ways-your-brand-could-use-nfts/. 
Boom, D. Van (2022) How a $300K Bored Ape Yacht Club NFT was accidentally sold for $3K. [Online]. Available 
from: 
https://www.cnet.com/news/how-a-300k-bored-ape-yacht-club-nft-was-accidentally-sold-
for-3k/. 
Bowman, C. & Ambrosini, V. (2000) Value creation versus value capture: towards a coherent definition of 
value in strategy. British journal of management. 11 (1), 1–15. 
Brain, L. (2022) Race To The Top: OpenSea vs Rarible vs Mintable. [Online]. Available from: 
https://medium.com/codex/opensea-vs-rarible-vs-mintable-705885b06490#:~:text=The mintable 
marketplace can be,clear winner in this category. 
Buckingham-Jones, S. (2021) Nike, Coke, Asics and Gary Vee pile into NFTs to build brand, fund growth – and 
make big money. [Online]. Available from: https://www.mi-3.com.au/20-09-2021/nike-coca-cola-
asics-nba-nfts-gary-vaynerchuk-vee-friends. 
Caldarelli, G. & Ellul, J. (2021) The Blockchain Oracle Problem in Decentralized Finance A Multivocal Approach. 
Applied Sciences. 11 (16), 7572. 
Chang, H. (2021) Understanding the value of Non-Fungible Tokens (NFT). [Online]. Available from: 
https://medium.com/@changhugo/understanding-the-value-of-non-fungible-tokens-nft-
49d2713bdfc4. 
Chirtoaca, D., Ellul, J. & Azzopardi, G. (2020) A framework for creating deployable smart contracts for non-
fungible tokens on the Ethereum blockchain. In: 2020 IEEE International Conference on Decentralized 
Applications and Infrastructures (DAPPS). 2020 pp. 100–105. 
Clark, M. (2021) NFTs, explained. [Online]. Available from: https://www.theverge.com/22310188/nft-
explainer-what-is-blockchain-crypto-art-faq. 
Concas, A. (2021) Transparency and traceability for art, NFTs and blockchain, good or bad? [Online]. Available 
from: https://en.cryptonomist.ch/2021/04/21/transparency-traceability-art-nfts-blockchain/. 
Conte, N. (2021) What are NFTs? Mapping the NFT Ecosystem. [Online]. Available from: 
https://www.visualcapitalist.com/what-are-nfts-mapping-the-nft-ecosystem/. 
Conway, L. (2022) What Is Illuvium? Learn About the Highly Anticipated NFT Game. [Online]. Available from: 
https://blockworks.co/everything-you-need-to-know-about-illuvium/. 
Crook, A. (2021) NFTs, Blockchain, and Games: Sizing The Opportunity. [Online]. Available from: 
https://adriancrook.com/nfts-blockchain-and-games-sizing-the-opportunity/. 
Dailey, N. (2021) If the metaverse is the next big thing, then NFTs are the ground floor, says creator of 
Winklevoss-owned 
Nifty 
Gateway. 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/currencies/metaverse-outlook-winklevoss-twins-nifty-
gateway-griffin-cock-foster-nfts-2021-12. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
560 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
DeSimone, M. & Jenssen, J. (2021) NFTs Have Arrived In The Wine Industry. [Online]. Available from: 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/theworldwineguys/2021/09/01/nfts-have-arrived-in-the-wine-
industry/?sh=36726440db39. 
Donaldson, T. & Preston, L.E. (1995) The stakeholder theory of the corporation: Concepts, evidence, and 
implications. Academy of management Review. 20 (1), 65–91. 
Dowling, M. (2021) Is non-fungible token pricing driven by cryptocurrencies? Finance Research Letters. 
[Online] 102097. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.frl.2021.102097. 
Dowling, M. (2022) Fertile LAND: Pricing non-fungible tokens. Finance Research Letters. 44, 102096. 
Farrier 
(2021) 
Kyros 
Report: 
NFT 
Market 
in 
2021. 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://kyros.ventures/2021/07/02/nft-market-report-2021/. 
Foss, N.J. & Saebi, T. (2017) Fifteen years of research on business model innovation: How far have we come, 
and where should we go? Journal of Management. 43 (1), 200–227. 
Freeman, R.E., Harrison, J.S., Wicks, A.C., Parmar, B.L., et al. (2010) Stakeholder theory: The state of the art. 
Gatto, J.G. (2021) NFT License Breakdown: Exploring Different Marketplaces and Associated License Issues. 
[Online]. Available from: https://www.natlawreview.com/article/nft-license-breakdown-exploring-
different-marketplaces-and-associated-license-issues. 
Geron, T. (2021) These are the blockchains that want to take down Ethereum. [Online]. Available from: 
https://www.protocol.com/fintech/ethereum-solana-avalanche-defi. 
Geroni, D. (2021) The Advantages Of Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs). [Online]. Available from: 
https://101blockchains.com/advantages-of-nfts/. 
Gomez, A. (2021) NFT Royalties: What Are They and How Do They Work? [Online]. Available from: 
https://cyberscrilla.com/nft-royalties-what-are-they-and-how-do-they-work/. 
Goodwin, J. (2021) What is an NFT? Non-fungible tokens explained. [Online]. Available from: 
https://edition.cnn.com/2021/03/17/business/what-is-nft-meaning-fe-series/index.html. 
Hale, 
J. 
(2021) 
Top 
10 
most 
expensive 
NFTs 
ever 
sold. 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.dexerto.com/tech/top-10-most-expensive-nfts-ever-sold-1670505/. 
Heine, O. (2020) The Future of Ownership: Mapping the Non-Fungible Token (NFT) Landscape 2021. [Online]. 
Available from: https://oleheine.medium.com/the-future-of-ownership-mapping-the-non-fungible-
token-nft-landscape-2021-cffc2007be96. 
Howcroft, 
E. 
(2021) 
Explainer: 
What 
are 
NFTs? 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.reuters.com/technology/what-are-nfts-2021-11-17/. 
Howcroft, E. (2022) Digital-only artwork fetches nearly $70 million at Christie’s. [Online]. Available from: 
https://www.reuters.com/lifestyle/digital-only-artwork-fetches-nearly-70-million-christies-2021-
03-12/. 
Iheanachor, N., David-West, Y. & Umukoro, I.O. (2021) Business model innovation at the bottom of the 
pyramid--A case of mobile money agents. Journal of Business Research. 127, 96–107. 
Jones, N. (2021) Scientists embrace digital craze for non-fungible tokens. Nature. [Online] 594, 481–482. 
Available from: https://media.nature.com/original/magazine-assets/d41586-021-01642-3/d41586-
021-01642-3.pdf. 
Jovanović, P. (2022) D’Cent Wallet Review [2022] – Is It Safe & How To Use It? [Online]. Available from: 
https://captainaltcoin.com/dcent-wallet-review/. 
Kastrenakes, J. (2021) Adidas is launching an NFT collection with exclusive access to streetwear drops. 
[Online]. Available from: https://www.theverge.com/2021/12/16/22822143/adidas-nft-launch-
into-the-metaverse-price-release-date. 
Khanagha, S., Volberda, H. & Oshri, I. (2014) Business model renewal and ambidexterity: structural alteration 
and strategy formation process during transition to a C loud business model. R\&D Management. 44 
(3), 322–340. 
Kireyev, P. & Evans, P.C. (2021) Making Sense of the NFT Marketplace. [Online]. Available from: 
https://hbr.org/2021/11/making-sense-of-the-nft-marketplace. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
561 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Klarin, A. (2020) The decade-long cryptocurrencies and the blockchain rollercoaster: Mapping the intellectual 
structure and charting future directions. Research in International Business and Finance. 51, 101067. 
Kosmarski, A. (2020) Blockchain adoption in academia: Promises and challenges. Journal of Open Innovation: 
Technology, Market, and Complexity. 6 (4), 117. 
Kshetri, N. (2017) Can blockchain strengthen the internet of things? IT professional. 19 (4), 68–72. 
Kugler, L. (2021) Non-fungible tokens and the future of art. Communications of the ACM. 64 (9), 19–20. 
Lepak, D.P., Smith, K.G. & Taylor, M.S. (2007) Value creation and value capture: A multilevel perspective. 
Academy of management review. 32 (1), 180–194. 
Li, J. & Kassem, M. (2021) Applications of distributed ledger technology (DLT) and Blockchain-enabled smart 
contracts in construction. Automation in Construction. 132, 103955. 
Locke, T. (2021) NFT trading volume hit $10.7 billion last quarter—here are 2 reasons why people are spending 
thousands on digital assets. [Online]. Available from: https://www.cnbc.com/2021/10/06/nft-
trading-volume-hit-10-billion-2-reasons-why-people-are-buying.html. 
Loebbecke, C. & Picot, A. (2015) Reflections on societal and business model transformation arising from 
digitization and big data analytics: A research agenda. The Journal of Strategic Information Systems. 
24 (3), 149–157. 
Lu, 
M. 
(2021) 
A 
Visual 
Guide 
to 
Profile 
Picture 
NFTs. 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.visualcapitalist.com/a-visual-guide-to-profile-picture-nfts/. 
Lydiate, H. (2021) Artlaw: Ways of Working Crypto Art Business. Art Monthly. 447, 44. 
Mackenzie, S. & Berzina, D. (2021) NFTs: Digital things and their criminal lives. Crime, Media, Culture. [Online] 
Available from: doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/17416590211039797. 
Marques, B. (2021) NFTs in Social Media is like a zoo, and some use them to symbolize social status. [Online]. 
Available from: https://www.cryptodefinance.com/nfts-in-social-media-zoo-social-status/. 
Martinique, E. (2021) 12 NFT Marketplaces To Be Familiar With Right Now. [Online]. Available from: 
https://www.widewalls.ch/magazine/nft-marketplaces. 
Martinod, N., Homayounfar, K., Lazzarotto, D., Upenik, E., et al. (2021) Towards a secure and trustworthy 
imaging with non-fungible tokens. In: Applications of Digital Image Processing XLIV. 2021 p. 
1184218. 
Massa, L., Tucci, C.L. & Afuah, A. (2017) A critical assessment of business model research. Academy of 
Management Annals. 11 (1), 73–104. 
Meiklejohn, S. (2021) The art of using access memberships for NFTs. [Online]. Available from: 
https://rechargepayments.com/blog/nfts-and-access-memberships/. 
MetaNFT 
(2021) 
Introducing 
MetaMata 
Passport. 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://medium.com/@metanft/introducing-metamata-passport-ce70ef7f3c43. 
Mitchell, K. (2021) How To Create A Physical NFT Marketplace? [Online]. Available from: 
https://medium.com/geekculture/physical-nfts-non-fungible-tokens-pioneers-of-the-future-
c578c3684af. 
Morkunas, V.J., Paschen, J. & Boon, E. (2019) How blockchain technologies impact your business model. 
Business Horizons. 62 (3), 295–306. 
Morrow, E. (2022) Should gaming embrace NFT? Both sides of the debate weigh in. [Online]. Available from: 
https://www.digitaltrends.com/gaming/pro-vs-anti-nfts-in-
gaming/?utm_campaign=168579_Editorial_Decrypted_01172022&utm_medium=email&utm_sour
ce=dotdigital&dm_i=6MG2,3M2R,13EMNO,H2QU,1. 
Mounts, C., Birry, A. & Dimitrijevic, A. (2021) Digitalization Of Markets; Framing The Emerging Ecosystem. 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.spglobal.com/_assets/documents/ratings/research/100494872.pdf. 
Nadini, M., Alessandretti, L., Di Giacinto, F., Martino, M., et al. (2021) Mapping the NFT revolution: market 
trends, trade networks and visual features. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.00647. 
Nailer, C. & Buttriss, G. (2020) Processes of business model evolution through the mechanism of anticipation 
and realisation of value. Industrial Marketing Management. 91, 671–685. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
562 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Nambiampurath, R. (2021) Top NFT Artists: 7 Best NFT Creators To Watch Out for in 2021. [Online]. Available 
from: https://beincrypto.com/learn/top-nft-artists/. 
Nonfungible.com 
(2021) 
NFT 
Market 
Overview. 
[Online]. 
2021. 
Available 
from: 
https://nonfungible.com/market/history. 
Notheisen, B., Cholewa, J.B. & Shanmugam, A.P. (2017) Trading real-world assets on blockchain. Business \& 
Information Systems Engineering. 59 (6), 425–440. 
Online Retail (2022) 9 steps for a successful NFT drop: Hype, fairness & fun. [Online]. Available from: 
https://queue-it.com/blog/successful-nft-drop/. 
Osterwalder, A. & Pigneur, Y. (2010) Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game changers, 
and challengers. John Wiley & Sons. 
Papakostas, N., Newell, A. & Hargaden, V. (2019) A novel paradigm for managing the product development 
process utilising blockchain technology principles. CIRP Annals. 68 (1), 137–140. 
Paxton, J. (2021) What Does NFT Mean? And 5 Ways Creators Can Use Them to Make BANK! [Online]. 
Available from: https://hyax.com/post/what-does-nft-mean-for-creators. 
Pilkington, M. (2016) Blockchain technology: principles and applications. In: Research handbook on digital 
transformations. Edward Elgar Publishing. 
Rawat, A.S. (2021) What is a Non-Fungible Token (NFT)? Features & Benefits. [Online]. Available from: 
https://www.analyticssteps.com/blogs/what-non-fungible-token-nft-features-benefits. 
Regner, F., Urbach, N. & Schweizer, A. (2019) NFTs in practice--non-fungible tokens as core component of a 
blockchain-based event ticketing application. 
Rodriguez, J. (2021) The Coming Convergence of NFTs and Artificial Intelligence. [Online]. Available from: 
https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/the-coming-convergence-of-nfts-and-artificial-intelligence-
2021-10-25. 
Rossolillo, N. (2021) How to Invest in NFTs. [Online]. Available from: https://www.fool.com/investing/stock-
market/market-sectors/financials/non-fungible-tokens/how-to-buy-nft/. 
Royal, 
J. 
(2022) 
12 
most 
popular 
types 
of 
cryptocurrency. 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.bankrate.com/investing/types-of-cryptocurrency/. 
Sharma, V. (2021) Your Ultimate Guide to NFT Marketplace Development. [Online]. Available from: 
https://www.sparxitsolutions.com/blog/nft-marketplace-development/. 
Sniper, R. (2021) What are Cool Cats NFTs? [Online]. Available from: https://raritysniper.com/news/what-
are-cool-cats-nft/. 
Tunstall, 
M. 
(2021) 
A 
Look 
Ahead: 
The 
NFT 
Craze. 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=2c252285-4985-4853-8ce7-60fbcaf2e313. 
Valeonti, F., Bikakis, A., Terras, M., Speed, C., et al. (2021) Crypto collectibles, museum funding and openglam: 
Challenges, opportunities and the potential of non-fungible tokens (nfts). Applied Sciences. 11 (21), 
9931. 
Wang, Q., Li, R., Wang, Q. & Chen, S. (2021) Non-fungible token (NFT): Overview, evaluation, opportunities 
and challenges. Available at: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.07447.pdf. 
Warner, K.S.R. & Wäger, M. (2019) Building dynamic capabilities for digital transformation: An ongoing 
process of strategic renewal. Long Range Planning. 52 (3), 326–349. 
Wilson, K.B., Karg, A. & Ghaderi, H. (2021) Prospecting non-fungible tokens in the digital economy: 
Stakeholders and ecosystem, risk and opportunity. Business Horizons. 
Yang, 
P. 
(2021) 
Curious 
Beginner’s 
Guide 
to 
Crypto 
Wallets. 
[Online]. 
Available 
from: 
https://creatoreconomy.so/p/curious-beginner-guide-to-crypto-wallets. 
Yuan, Y. & Wang, F.-Y. (2018) Blockchain and cryptocurrencies: Model, techniques, and applications. IEEE 
Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems. 48 (9), 1421–1428. 
Zhang, Y. & Wen, J. (2017) The IoT electric business model: Using blockchain technology for the internet of 
things. Peer-to-Peer Networking and Applications. 10 (4), 983–994. 
Zott, C., Amit, R. & Massa, L. (2011) The business model: recent developments and future research. Journal 
of management. 37 (4), 1019–1042. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
563 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Zutshi, A., Grilo, A. & Nodehi, T. (2021) The value proposition of blockchain technologies and its impact on 
Digital Platforms. Computers \& Industrial Engineering. 155, 107187. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
564 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Assessing the impact of patenting 
activity on business model 
innovation: the case of the bike 
industry  
 
Tolin Giovanni1,*, Piccaluga Andrea1  
1PhD Student in Innovation Management at Sant'Anna School of 
Advanced Studies; 2Full Professor of Management at Sant'Anna 
School of Advanced Studies 
*giovanni.tolin@santannapisa.it  
Abstract 
The study examines the impact of patenting activity on business model innovation (BMI) from an 
international perspective. By considering the specific case of the bike industry under a patent-based 
analysis, the work preliminary contributes to the literature on BMs and their incremental 
innovation in the R&D management field. 
Keywords  
Business model innovation, patent-based innovation, R&D management, incremental innovation, 
bike industry 
Main text  
1. Introduction 
In the past twenty years, business models innovation (BMI) has been a prominent topic in business 
sciences (Zott et al., 2011; Velu and Jacob, 2016; Wirtz and Daiser, 2018). Within this field, R&D 
investments and strategies have often emerged as crucial issues, including the roles of Open 
Innovation and the management of IP. In particular, a long tradition exists in investigating the 
impact of patents on firms’ innovation (Verhoeven et al., 2016; Gans et al., 2017), with specific 
emphasis on those that operate in an international perspective (Picci, 2010; Alkemade et al., 2015; 
Fabrizio et al., 2017). Consequently, abundant research regards the definition of the boundaries of 
what can be defined as a patent-based advantage that is firm-specific, relatively non-tradable, and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
565 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
capable to reshape a firm’s business model generating value over time (Chih-Yi and Bou-Wen, 2021; 
Harrigan et al., 2017, Markman et al., 2004; Wei et al., 2018).  
With regard to what determines an impact on BMI, scholars have analysed several determinants, 
such as strategic alliances (Chesbrough and Schwartz, 2007; Ritala and Sainio, 2014; Velu, 2015), 
organizational structures, and culture (Bocken and Geradts, 2020; Hock et al. (2016); Latilla et al., 
2021), resources (Bicen and Johnson, 2015; Halme and Korpela, 2014; Mezger, 2014), sustainability 
(Evans et al., 2017; Hall and Wagner, 2012; Linder and Williander, 2017), and digitalization 
(Rachinger et al., 2018; Soluk et al., 2021; Tesch and Brillinger, 2017). However, relatively low 
attention has been paid to the role that patents and IP protection may play in BMI (Slowak and 
Regenfelder, 2017; Yun et al., 2016; Feng et al., 2021; Holgersson and Granstrand, 2021). 
The aim of this work is therefore to provide a contribution to this field. More precisely, as suggested 
by Wirtz and Daiser (2018), in order to directly address this issue through an exploratory approach 
and an industry-based case study, we decided to consider the role of patenting activities in BMI for 
a single industry: i.e., the bike industry. We decided to choose this particular industry because of a 
number of distinctive characteristics. 
First, the bike industry is an extremely consolidated industry, in the sense that it cannot be 
considered new, but is characterised by intense activity in terms of trademark, design, and 
patenting (EUIPO, 2019). As a matter of fact, it has been always distinguished by a vivid patenting 
activity and a strong patent-based international competition from its inception (WIPO, 2021). 
Second, in recent times, the topic of innovation in the bike industry and BMI have received 
increasing interest in the academic world, despite being still relatively unexplored (Gao and Li, 2020; 
Zhao et al., 2020; Turon and Kubik, 2021; Han et al., 2022). Third, the industry has always been 
characterized by an assiduous innovation purpose, facing new technological trajectories according 
to the shifting of the technology paradigm under a disruptive and incremental perspective (Ruan et 
al., 2014; Yun et al., 2021).  
Within this framework, our work will try to answer the following research question: what is the 
impact of patenting activities on business model innovation in the bike industry, at the international 
level?  
2. Methodology 
According to the framework proposed by Yu et al. (2016) for patent-based industry analysis, we 
decided to use patent data to discuss BMI and deal with the research question. In particular, we 
built a dataset, related to the 2002-2020 period, from the Orbit Intelligence database, which 
combines different data sources. Obtained data belong to IPC classes and sub-classes referring to 
the bicycle industry, namely B62-H, B62-J, B62-K, B62-L, B62-M, using the keywords “bike*” and 
“bicycle*” to refine the results. The search algorithm has been defined as follows:  
((bike*) or (bicycle*))/TI/AB/CLMS/DESC/ODES/OBJ/ADB/ICLM AND (B62H or B62J or B62K or B62L or 
B62M)/IPC AND (PDA >= 2001) 
We obtained more than 56.000 patents granted in more than 60 countries. We built a data-based 
count of patent applications for every country we considered, considering for each sub-classes the 
following variable: number of patent grants, patent applicant name, patent applicant origin 
country. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
566 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
According to Katila (2000), there is no one commonly accepted way to measure innovation through 
patents. However, together with a preliminary analysis on the patenting activities by year, both 
aggregated and by subclasses, and the analysis of the patent families by players, we considered the 
citation of patent counts in order to get a measure of the qualitative differences in innovation 
within the bike industry on an international basis (Albert et al., 1991). Within this framework, if 
patents belonging to a certain class are cited by other subsequent patents, it means that the 
innovative purpose of that patent has an impact on subsequent developmental efforts 
(Trajtenberg, 1990). 
3. Results 
Starting from a preliminary analysis of the descriptive statistics, we can observe how in the bike 
industry the number of patents granted in the period 2002-2020 has grown. We moved from an 
annual average of 1.500 patents granted in the first years of the century to a peak of more than 
5.100 patents granted in 2017. Only in recent times the bike industry experienced a contraction. 
This is a trend which is not in line with the general course of the whole patenting activity on a global 
basis. In fact, after a contraction in 2019, all over the world, IP protection efforts increased in 2020, 
pushed by the great Asian economies (WIPO, 2021). 
As we can see in Figure 1, the most active countries in terms of patenting activities in the byke 
industry are China, with more than 11.600 patents granted between 2001 and 2020, followed by 
the US (6.150), Germany (5.602), Japan (4.659), and Taiwan (4.525). While in the case of the US and 
Germany, the number of patents has remained stable over the years, there was a relevant growth 
in China, with a peak of 3.591 patents granted in 2017. This first analysis helps us do define the 
dimensions and trends of the international competition in a globalized market. 
 
FIGURE 1: BIKE INDUSTRY (2002-2020) – INTERNATIONAL TREND, PATENTS GRANTED BY COUNTRY. 
According to the classification proposed in WIPO (2021), we also analysed the IPC subclasses with 
a stronger propensity to patenting activity. As we can observe in Figure 2, it emerged that the sub-
classes with the higher level of patents granted is B62K, which is related to cycles, frames, and 
similar, with more than 28% of the inventions protected on the total amount considered. Within 
this IPC sub-class, we found a particular innovating propensity for foldable bikes, frames, and 
steering devices. Another dynamic sub-class is the one of cycle saddles or seats and related 
accessories (B62J). Relevant levels of innovation may be found for saddles and their single 
components (frames, seat posts, hulls), with particular interest for their synergic interactions. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
567 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Furthermore, we observed particular relevance for lighting devices as much as complementary 
accessories for the support of smartphones, maps, water bottles, etc. 
In terms of patenting activities, similar outputs may be found in sub-class B62M, where we find 
electric and pedal-assisted bikes, as much as their batteries, actuators, and transmission systems 
specially adapted for such cycles. It is interesting to observe how these different trends have 
changed over time according to the need of the market and the expansion of sub-sectors. It clearly 
emerges that a key aspect in patenting activities for the bike industry is the diversification and the 
complementarity around the standard bike frames.  
In conclusion, we can consider also sub-class B62H for the 10% of the patents granted and B62L for 
5%. The first sub-field includes all those inventions related to the supporting devices as much as the 
appliance to prevent the theft of bikes. On the other hand, the second sub-field encompasses 
brakes and braking mechanisms or systems. 
 
Considering the more active firms in terms of patenting activities on a global basis, we can see that 
the 10 top players own 13% of the overall patents granted in the industry. According to data 
provided in Figure 3, the most active firm is Shimano, with 2.261 patents granted in the bike 
industry in the past 20 years, and with a portfolio of more than 7.000 patents. Shimano is followed 
by Honda Motor (with 1.287 patents granted), Yamaha Motor (574), and Bosch (493). These 
elements assume particular relevance for our research because within the bike industry we see not 
only well-known names but also great multinationals that operate in the sector of components and 
vehicle productions. By looking at their IP portfolio, we can observe that those patents are mainly 
Figure 1: Bike industry (2002-2020) – Patents granted by IPC B62 Sub-classes 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
568 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
linked to the e-bike’s sub-sector. In fact, they consider not only traditional fields of application but 
also batteries, electric motors, and advanced sensors.  
Within this framework, the main competitors of Shimano are SRAM (US) with 377 patents granted, 
and Campagnolo (IT) with 290. The two companies are both producers of bicycles’ components that 
in order to deal with the market need for innovation narrowed the typology of patents granted over 
the year, specializing themselves in specific sub-sectors of the bike industry. SRAM has readapted 
its R&D efforts to produce mountain bike components, while Campagnolo specialized in racing bike 
components. This is a common trend that we observed in several companies all over the world. The 
international competition in the sector has led the companies to readapt their business models 
through innovation, specializing themselves in a particular sub-sector of the bike industry.
 
FIGURE 3: BIKE INDUSTRY (2002-2020) – PATENTS GRANTED BY COUNTRY ON THE GLOBAL MARKET 
Starting from this preliminary analysis, we will move to focus on a patent citation analysis in order 
to better deal with the research question. To understand how firms innovate their BMs with 
patents, we preliminary set up a citation-weighted patent count to distinguish between the 
different players in the bike industry. As we can see in Figure 4, a strong network emerges among 
the firms with a high patenting propensity that we discussed in the previous paragraphs and smaller 
firms that actively cites their inventions in subsequent patents.  
On a preliminary focus, there are three may aspects that can be underlined from Figure 4. First, 
these citations revealed that patenting activities play a key role in the development of subsequent 
innovations in the bike industry (Han et al., 2020). Second, the patenting activities are not 
determined only by self-citations but also by cross-citations. In particular, it emerged a high self-
citation focus when it comes to considering big industrial players (e.g., Shimano, SRAM, 
Campagnolo), while it emerges a higher cross-citation focus when we consider smaller firms 
(Karvonen and Kässi, 2011). Third, according to Wu et al. (2006), we can assume that a similar 
codified knowledge flow of patent citation goes hand-in-hand with more tacit aspects of knowledge 
flows, related to a more diffuse interconnection and path-dependency among the assets and the 
knowledge of the firms. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
569 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
FIGURE 4: BIKE INDUSTRY (2002-2020) – PATENTS’ DEPENDENCY BY CITATIONS. 
 
If we consider the bike industry and the patents’ dependency among its different players, we can 
observe what Mitchell (1989) and Katila (2000) defined as a patent-based incremental 
improvement in which the market leadership is determined by continuous technological innovation 
and a transition to traditional business models to implemented ones. This perspective directely link 
the changes in the bike industry to the theory of incremental innovation developed by Ettlie et al. 
(1984) and to the way in which it shapes the business model theory (Souto, 2015; Tang et al., 2016; 
Han et al., 2020, Benzidia et al., 2021). 
Even if the research process is not concluded yet, there are still some preliminary conclusions that 
may be underlined. 
4. Preliminary conclusions 
The preliminary stages of the patent-based analysis on the bike industry led to a few insights to 
preliminarily address the research question. First of all, with regard to patented inventions, it seems 
that firms readapted their business model in order to address market trends and to cope with the 
international competition (Bashir and Verma, 2016; Velu and Jacob, 2016; Wirtz and Daiser, 2018). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
570 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
In this process, a key role seems to be played by innovation, measured by the patenting activities, 
the patenting trends, and the patent’s cross dependency by citations (Albert et al., 1991; Yu et al., 
(2016); Trajtenberg, 1990). Within this framework, we observed that patents, and therefore 
innovation, have an impact on the BM of the firms in the bike industry. In fact, they are able to 
incrementally transform an industry over time on an international basis, leading firms to change 
their BM, to deal with new sectors through R&D management, and to incrementally innovate and 
specialize themselves in specific sub-fields with distinctive patents always more cross-dependent in 
an international framework. This preliminary investigation will be enriched with further insights 
from patent citation’s analysis in terms of the relationship between the different innovating drives 
of the firms. An avenue for future research may be related to integrating the analysis with multiple 
case studies from the bike sector to empirically investigate the impact on BMI. 
The work also aims to contribute to the literature on BMI in an international context and R&D 
Management by combining these two different approaches under the lens of investigation of 
patents to assess the level of competitive advantage in the firms in the bike industry (Wirtz and 
Daiser, 2018; Slowak and Regenfelder, 2017; Holgersson and Granstrand, 2021). By integrating 
these two different frameworks, our research is relevant not only to the academic debate on these 
topics. In fact, our findings are relevant to business owners and managers with regard to the firm’s 
innovation strategy in the bike industry. A deeper understanding of the relationship between BMI 
and the patents’ role may contribute to a more effective approach in the R&D management 
activities of the firms. In addition, also in terms of public policies, important implications emerge. 
Since patenting activities have an impact on BMI and R&D activities, this work can lead policy 
makers to implement specific actions in order to stimulate this innovative process. 
References  
Albert, M., Avery, D., Narin, F., and McAllister, P. (1991). ‘Direct validation of citation counts as indicators of 
industrial patents’, Research Policy, Vol. 20, pp. 251-259. 
Alkemade, F., Heimeriks, G., Schoen, A., Villard, L., & Laurens, P. (2015). Tracking the internationalization of 
multinational corporate inventive activity: national and sectoral characteristics. Research 
Policy, 44(9), 1763-1772. 
Benzidia, S., Luca, R. M., & Boiko, S. (2021). Disruptive innovation, business models, and encroachment 
strategies: Buyer's perspective on electric and hybrid vehicle technology. Technological Forecasting 
and Social Change, 165, 120520. 
Bicen, P., & Johnson, W. H. (2015). Radical innovation with limited resources in high‐turbulent markets: The 
role of lean innovation capability. Creativity and Innovation Management, 24(2), 278-299. 
Bocken, N. M., & Geradts, T. H. (2020). Barriers and drivers to sustainable business model innovation: 
Organization design and dynamic capabilities. Long Range Planning, 53(4), 101950. 
Chesbrough, H., & Schwartz, K. (2007). Innovating business models with co-development 
partnerships. Research-Technology Management, 50(1), 55-59. 
Chih-Yi, S., & Bou-Wen, L. (2021). Attack and defense in patent-based competition: A new paradigm of 
strategic decision-making in the era of the fourth industrial revolution. Technological Forecasting 
and Social Change, 167, 120670. 
Ettlie, J. E., Bridges, W. P., & O'keefe, R. D. (1984). Organization strategy and structural differences for radical 
versus incremental innovation. Management science, 30(6), 682-695. 
EUIPO (2019). IPR-intensive industries and economic performance in the European Union.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
571 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Van Fossen, K., Yang, M., Silva, E. A., & Barlow, C. Y. (2017). Business 
model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for creation of sustainable 
business models. Business Strategy and the Environment, 26(5), 597-608. 
Fabrizio, K. R., Poczter, S., & Zelner, B. A. (2017). Does innovation policy attract international competition? 
Evidence from energy storage. Research Policy, 46(6), 1106-1117. 
Feng, J., Liu, Z., & Feng, L. (2021). Identifying opportunities for sustainable business models in manufacturing: 
Application of patent analysis and generative topographic mapping. Sustainable production and 
consumption, 27, 509-522. 
Gans, J. S., Murray, F. E., & Stern, S. (2017). Contracting over the disclosure of scientific knowledge: 
Intellectual property and academic publication. Research Policy, 46(4), 820-835. 
Gao, P., & Li, J. (2020). Understanding sustainable business model: A framework and a case study of the bike-
sharing industry. Journal of cleaner production, 267, 122229. 
Hall, J., & Wagner, M. (2012). Integrating sustainability into firms' processes: Performance effects and the 
moderating role of business models and innovation. Business Strategy and the Environment, 21(3), 
183-196. 
Halme, M., & Korpela, M. (2014). Responsible innovation toward sustainable development in small and 
medium‐sized enterprises: A resource perspective. Business Strategy and the Environment, 23(8), 
547-566. 
Han, J., Zhou, H., Löwik, S., & de Weerd-Nederhof, P. (2022). Building and sustaining emerging ecosystems 
through new focal ventures: Evidence from China's bike-sharing industry. Technological Forecasting 
and Social Change, 174, 121261.  
Han, S., Lyu, Y., Ji, R., Zhu, Y., Su, J., & Bao, L. (2020). Open innovation, network embeddedness and 
incremental innovation capability. Management Decision. 
Harrigan, K. R., & DiGuardo, M. C. (2017). Sustainability of patent-based competitive advantage in the US 
communications services industry. The Journal of Technology Transfer, 42(6), 1334-1361. 
Hock, M., Clauss, T., & Schulz, E. (2016). The impact of organizational culture on a firm's capability to innovate 
the business model. R&D Management, 46(3), 433-450. 
Holgersson, M., & Granstrand, O. (2021). Value capture in open innovation markets: the role of patent rights 
for innovation appropriation. European Journal of Innovation Management. 
Karvonen, M., & Kässi, T. (2011). Patent citation analysis as a tool for analysing industry convergence. In 2011 
Proceedings of PICMET'11: Technology Management in the Energy Smart World (PICMET) (pp. 1-13). 
IEEE. 
Katila, R. (2000). Using patent data to measure innovation performance. International Journal of Business 
Performance Management, 2(1-3), 180-193. 
Latilla, V. M. M., Urbinati, A., Cavallo, A., Franzò, S., & Ghezzi, A. (2021). Organizational re-design for business 
model innovation while exploiting digital technologies: A single case study of an energy 
company. International journal of innovation and technology management, 18(02), 2040002. 
Linder, M., & Williander, M. (2017). Circular business model innovation: inherent uncertainties. Business 
strategy and the environment, 26(2), 182-196. 
Markman, G. D., Espina, M. I., & Phan, P. H. (2004). Patents as surrogates for inimitable and non-substitutable 
resources. Journal of management, 30(4), 529-544. 
Mezger, F. (2014). Toward a capability‐based conceptualization of business model innovation: insights from 
an explorative study. R&D Management, 44(5), 429-449. 
Mitchell, W. (1989). Whether and when? Probability and timing of incumbents' entry into emerging industrial 
subfields. Administrative science quarterly, 208-230. 
Picci, L. (2010). The internationalization of inventive activity: A gravity model using patent data. Research 
Policy, 39(8), 1070-1081. 
Rachinger, M., Rauter, R., Müller, C., Vorraber, W., & Schirgi, E. (2018). Digitalization and its influence on 
business model innovation. Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
572 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Ritala, P., & Sainio, L. M. (2014). Coopetition for radical innovation: technology, market and business-model 
perspectives. Technology Analysis & Strategic Management, 26(2), 155-169. 
Ruan, Y., Hang, C. C., & Wang, Y. M. (2014). Government ׳ s role in disruptive innovation and industry 
emergence: The case of the electric bike in China. Technovation, 34(12), 785-796. 
Slowak, A. P., & Regenfelder, M. (2017). Creating value, not wasting resources: sustainable innovation 
strategies. Innovation: The European Journal of Social Science Research, 30(4), 455-475. 
Soluk, J., Miroshnychenko, I., Kammerlander, N., & De Massis, A. (2021). Family influence and digital business 
model innovation: the enabling role of dynamic capabilities. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 
45(4), 867-905. 
Souto, J. E. (2015). Business model innovation and business concept innovation as the context of incremental 
innovation and radical innovation. Tourism management, 51, 142-155. 
Tang, L., Murphree, M., & Breznitz, D. (2016). Structured uncertainty: a pilot study on innovation in China’s 
mobile phone handset industry. The Journal of Technology Transfer, 41(5), 1168-1194. 
Tesch, J., & Brillinger, A. (2017). The evaluation aspect of digital business model innovation: a literature review 
on tools and methodologies. 
The Dynamic Competition, Strategic Enforcement Through IPR Management: A Case of Bike Component 
Industry. Taiwan Academy of Management Journal, 2006, 6.2. 
Trajtenberg, M. (1990). Economic analysis of product innovation – the case of CV scanners. Harvard University 
Press. 
Turoń, K., & Kubik, A. (2021). Business innovations in the new mobility market during the COVID-19 with the 
possibility of open business model innovation. Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market, and 
Complexity, 7(3), 195. 
Velu, C. (2015). Business model innovation and third-party alliance on the survival of new 
firms. Technovation, 35, 1-11. 
Velu, C., & Jacob, A. (2016). Business model innovation and owner–managers: the moderating role of 
competition. R&D Management, 46(3), 451-463. 
Verhoeven, D., Bakker, J., & Veugelers, R. (2016). Measuring technological novelty with patent-based 
indicators. Research Policy, 45(3), 707-723. 
Wei, T., Zhu, Z., Li, Y., & Yao, N. (2018). The evolution of competition in innovation resource: a theoretical 
study based on Lotka–Volterra model. Technology Analysis & Strategic Management, 30(3), 295-
310. 
WIPO (2021). World Intellectual Property Indicators 2021. Geneva: World Intellectual Property Organization. 
Wirtz, B., & Daiser, P. (2018). Business model innovation processes: A systematic literature review. Journal of 
Business Models, 6(1), 40-58. 
Yun, J. J., Won, D., Jeong, E., Park, K., Yang, J., & Park, J. (2016). The relationship between technology, business 
model, and market in autonomous car and intelligent robot industries. Technological Forecasting 
and Social Change, 103, 142-155. 
Yun, J. J., Zhao, X., Park, K., Del Gaudio, G., & Sadoi, Y. (2021). New dominant design and knowledge 
management; a reversed U curve with long head and tail. Knowledge Management Research & 
Practice, 1-15. 
Zhao, S., Xiong, J., Kim, S. Y., Xu, L., & Yan, J. (2020). When bike-sharing crashed in China: a bumpy ride. Journal 
of Business Strategy. 
Zott, C., Amit, R., & Massa, L. (2011). The business model: recent developments and future research. Journal 
of management, 37(4), 1019-1042. 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
573 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
How Do Hot-growth Start-ups 
(HGSUs) Survive the Liability of 
Newness?  
A Systematic Review and Conceptual Synthesis  
Matteo Cristofaro1,* Gianpaolo Abatecola1, Federico Giannetti1  
1University of Rome ‘Tor Vergata’ 
*matteo.cristofaro@uniroma2.it  
Extended abstract 
Introduction and theoretical background 
What factors lead hot-growth start-ups to overcome infant mortality? Understanding the reasons 
behind and the consequences of the survival and failure of new ventures has always attracted the 
interest of both scholars and practitioners in the management, organisation, and entrepreneurship 
areas due to the huge impact on economics and society (e.g. Aldrich, 2012; Gudmundsson & 
Lechner, 2013; Josefy, Sirmon, & Carnes, 2017; Makropoulos, Weir, & Zhang, 2020; Soto-Simeone, 
Sirén, & Antretter, 2020; Wang, 2012). Indeed, as pointed out by a recent report by Startupgenome 
(2020), 5 out of 10 start-ups fail by the end of their 5th year (9 out of 10 when considering their 
entire lifespan); yet, this rate has even been exacerbated due to the current COVID-19 pandemic 
(Korsgaard et al., 2020). 
Over time, the literature has been broadly accepting that the high failure rate for new-born firms 
can be explained through the liability of newness hypothesis, which was advanced by the famous 
American sociologist Arthur Stinchcombe in 1965. In his seminal view, new organisations are more 
likely to die than established organisations because they lack experience, coordination, customers, 
and solid trust relationships. Stinchcombe’s assumptions, which have opened a new stream of 
research in management, organisation, and entrepreneurship, have been largely confirmed by past 
(e.g. Audretsch and Mahmood, 1995) and more recent studies (e.g. Laursen, Masciarelli, & 
Reichstein, 2016; Zhang & White, 2016; Yang & Aldrich, 2017), resulting in the (current) focus on 
how to countervail newness (e.g. Bellavitis, Cumming, & Vanacker, 2020; Ko, Wiklund, & Pollack, 
2020). 
On this premise, to date it also appears a complementary, but no less important, matter of fact that 
some new entrepreneurial species, i.e. gazelles, Unicorns, and Venture Capital (hereafter VC) 
backed companies (derived from Aldrich & Ruef, 2018), are significantly challenging the common 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
574 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
perceptions traditionally associated with failure and liabilities for new ventures (e.g. Coad & Srhoj, 
2020; Mollick, 2020). Indeed, they suffer less acute failure rates than ‘traditional’ start-ups, around 
75% over their life cycle (NVCA, 2020). However, it is also true that when these hot-growth start-
ups (HGSUs) fail, they cause even more dramatic effects due to their severe expansion in the first 
years (see the cases of Aiwujiwu, Quibi, etc.; CB Insights, 2021). 
In other words, hot-growth start-ups seemingly represent a new kind of entrepreneurship 
paradigm, which is constantly attracting attention (e.g. Belenzon, Chatterji, & Daley, 2020; Bermiss 
et al., 2017; Forti, Munari, & Zhang, 2020; LiPuma, 2012). At the same time, we argue, a knowledge 
gap currently exists in understanding what specific characteristics facilitate each of these 
exceptional entrepreneurial species to overcome the typical challenges displaying Stinchcombe’s 
liability of newness. We have, thus, conjectured this review article as a contribution towards filling 
this gap. 
Methodology 
We chose the Systematic Literature Review (SLR) method (Tranfield et al., 2003) to search for, 
synthesise, and interpret the extant literature regarding newness when Unicorns, gazelles, and VC-
backed companies are specifically considered. In particular, we implemented the SLR steps and we 
arrived at a final sample consisting of 70 publications.  
We then delved into our 70-article sample by running two thematic analyses based on the following 
four-stage procedure: a) coding, b) categorising, c) thematising, and d) integrating (Mayan, 2016). 
The first thematic analysis was aimed at distinguishing the three entrepreneurial species according 
to their characteristics. In particular, we used a mixed approach (e.g. Braun & Clarke, 2006). The 
initial codebook was composed of those characteristics able to attract the interest of financial 
analysts in following new ventures, thus increasing their hype and capitalisation: i) ownership, ii) 
firm size, iii) financial return, and iv) lines of business. Instead, the “business model” variable, 
defined as the “the rationale of how an organisation creates, delivers, and captures value” 
(Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010; p. 14), emerged inductively. 
Subsequently, to identify the determinants of hot-growth start-ups’ survival, we specifically 
performed a second thematic analysis. In this case, we inductively coded the articles in the sample 
according to the four main problems highlighted by Stinchcombe (1965) and already detailed in our 
theoretical background: i) lack of experience, ii) lack of coordination, iii) lack of stable ties; and iv) 
precarious trust relationships. Through analysing new ventures’ answers to these four problems, 
we derived the different determinants of hot-growth start-ups’ survival. We detail our results in the 
following section. 
Results and Implications 
Hot-growth start-ups may flourish with or without the support of private investors. In this vein, it is 
worth specifying that the supporting roles of crowdfunding, trade credit, or bank finance are not 
neglected, but, they did not emerge as the main, consistent, and determinant supportive sources 
for hot-growth start-ups. According to the proposed framework, Unicorns, for example, seem to be 
extremely dependent on small rounds of initial investments that are then followed by VCs’ main 
financial support. The difference between Unicorns and VC-backed companies lies in the distinct 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
575 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
inner features that Unicorns possess – i.e. a high-scalable business model based on platform 
technologies and cross-multichannel selling – which allow a different path. From this study’s 
samples, instead, understanding whether gazelles are also mostly an evolution of VC-backed 
companies appears more controversial. 
From what we have explained above, ventures that remain VC-backed companies, without 
becoming gazelles or Unicorns, are firms that: i) did not have the genetic code of the latter two 
entrepreneurial species; or ii) they were embedded in an environment limiting their growth 
(Wright, Pruthi, & Lockett, 2005). For these reasons, VC-backed companies reach a lower market 
evaluation than gazelles and Unicorns. In particular, if compared to VC-backed companies, gazelles 
seem more able to gain the favour of the local environment and receive benefits (Acs & Mueller, 
2008). This happens thanks to their inner characteristics (such as heterogeneity in terms of the 
operating industry), which support the creation of job opportunities and healthy economic 
conditions (Koski & Pajarinen, 2013; Santoleri, 2020). However, when this virtuous relationship with 
the environment starts failing, and/or investors no longer sustain the gazelles’ growth, the latter 
risk being selected out of the industry; obviously, the same can also happen to companies that lose 
their VC backing (Jiang et al., 2014).  
Of course, the withdrawal of investors does not always coincide with the failure of gazelles and VC-
backed companies in the liability of adolescence stage; they can overcome this drama. Gazelles and 
VC-backed companies could be selected out also because of other reasons, such as founder 
departure, top management team turnover, lack of professionalisation, cultural change, or the 
shifting use of cultural and formal controls (DeSantola & Gulati, 2017). In contrast, the presence of 
investors in covering losses and sustaining the scaling up of firms appears vital for Unicorns (Kuratko 
et al., 2020; Abatecola et al., 2021). 
We believe that future research can also benefit from the recent study by González-Uribe and Reyes 
(2020). According to their results, the formation of VC-backed companies and Unicorns is eased by 
the presence of different factors, including: i) incubators, ii) high education/human capital, iii) 
propensity to innovate, iv) scientific development and development of property rights legislation, 
and v) ease of doing business and the entrepreneurial culture within countries (see also Martínez‐
Fierro et al., 2020). In practice, hot-growth start-ups are seemingly beneficial for entrepreneurial 
ecosystems, but, at the same time, need fertile ground to flourish in terms of macroeconomic 
factors. These, in turn, are directly influenced by their outcomes (Aldrich & Ruef, 2018; Bos & Stam, 
2014). Therefore, we argue, adopting a co-evolutionary perspective (e.g. Author, 2020; Cafferata, 
2016) to study the phenomenon could support a more fine-tuned explanation of how, on the one 
hand, hot-growth start-ups can come to light and grow, and how, on the other hand, 
entrepreneurial ecosystems can thrive (Cumming, Werth, & Zhang, 2019; Stam and van de Ven, 
2019).  
Keywords  
Hot-growth start-ups, Unicorns, Gazelles, liability of newness, review. 
References  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
576 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Abatecola, G., Cristofaro, M., Giannetti, F., & Kask, J. (2021) How can biases affect entrepreneurial decision 
making? toward a behavioral approach to unicorns. International Entrepreneurship and 
Management Journal, DOI: 10.1007/s11365-021-00772-4. 
Acs, Z.J. & Mueller, P. (2008) Employment effects of business dynamics: Mice, gazelles and elephants. Small 
Business Economics, 30 (1), 85-100. 
Aldrich, H.E. (2012) The emergence of entrepreneurship as an academic field: A personal essay on 
institutional entrepreneurship. Research Policy, 41 (7), 1240-1248. 
Aldrich, H.E. & Ruef, M. (2018) Unicorns, gazelles, and other distractions on the way to understanding real 
entrepreneurship in the United States. Academy of Management Perspectives, 32 (4), 458-472. 
Audretsch, D.B. & Mahmood, T. (1995) New firm survival: New results using a hazard function. Review of 
Economics and Statistics, 77, 97-103. 
Belenzon, S., Chatterji, A.K. & Daley, B. (2020) Choosing between growth and glory. Management Science, 66 
(5), 2050-2074. 
Bellavitis, C., Cumming, D. & Vanacker, T. (2020) Ban, boom, and echo! Entrepreneurship and initial coin 
offerings. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice. DOI: 10.1177/1042258720940114. 
*Bermiss. Y.S., Hallen, B.L., McDonald, R. & Pahnke, E.C. (2017) Entrepreneurial beacons: The Yale 
endowment, run-ups, and the growth of venture capital. Strategic Management Journal, 38 (3), 545-
565. 
*Bos, J.W.B. & Stam, E. (2014) Gazelles and industry growth: a study of young high-growth firms in The 
Netherlands. Industrial and Corporate Change, 23 (1), 145-169. 
Braun, V. & Clarke, V. (2006) Using thematic analysis in psychology. Qualitative Research in Psychology, 3(2), 
77–101. 
Cafferata, R. (2016) Darwinist connections between the systemness of social organizations and their 
evolution. Journal of Management & Governance, 20 (1), 19-44. 
CB Insights (2020) The Global Unicorn Club. Available at: https://www.cbinsights.com/research-unicorn-
companies [accessed 28th October 2020]. 
Coad, A. & Srhoj, S. (2020) Catching Gazelles with a Lasso: Big data techniques for the prediction of high-
growth firms. Small Business Economics, 55, 541-565. 
Cumming, D., Werth, J.C. & Zhang, Y.L. (2019) Governance in entrepreneurial ecosystems: venture capitalists 
vs. technology parks. Small Business Economics, 52 (2): 455-484. 
DeSantola, A., & Gulati, R. (2017) Scaling: Organizing and growth in entrepreneurial ventures. Academy of 
Management Annals, 11 (2), 640-668. 
Forti, E., Munari, F., & Zhang, C. (2020) Does VC backing affect brand strategy in technology ventures? 
Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal, 14 (2), 265-286. 
Gudmundsson, S.V., & Lechner, C. (2013) Cognitive biases, organization, and entrepreneurial firm survival. 
European Management Journal, 31 (3), 278-294. 
Josefy, M.H., Sirmon, J.D. & Carnes, C. (2017) Living and dying: Synthesizing the literature on firm survival and 
failure across stages of development. Academy of Management Annals, 11 (2), 770-799. 
Ko, E.J., Wiklund, J. & Pollack, J.M. (2020) Entrepreneurial team diversity and productivity: the role of family 
relationships in nascent ventures. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, DOI: 1042258720902058. 
Korsgaard, S., Hunt, R.A., Townsend, D.M. & Ingstrup, M. B. (2020) COVID-19 and the importance of space in 
entrepreneurship 
research 
and 
policy. 
International 
Small 
Business 
Journal, 
DOI: 
10.1177/0266242620963942. 
Koski, H. & Pajarinen, M. (2013) The role of business subsidies in job creation of start-ups, gazelles and 
incumbents. Small Business Economics, 41 (1), 195-214. 
Kuratko, D.F., Holt, H.L. & Neubert, E. (2020) Blitzscaling: the good, the bad, and the ugly. Business Horizons, 
63 (1), 109-119. 
Laursen, K., Masciarelli, F. & Reichstein, T. (2016) A matter of location: the role of regional social capital in 
overcoming the liability of newness in R&D acquisition activities. Regional Studies, 50 (9), 1537-1550. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
577 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
LiPuma, J.A. (2012) Internationalization and the IPO performance of new ventures. Journal of Business 
Research, 65 (7), 914-921. 
Mayan, M.J. (2016) Essentials of qualitative inquiry. Routledge. 
Mollick, E. (2020) The Unicorn’s shadow: Combating the dangerous myths that hold back startups, founders, 
and investors. Philadelphia, US: Wharton School Press. 
Osterwalder, A., & Pigneur, Y. (2010) Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game changers, 
and challengers. London: John Wiley & Sons. 
*Santoleri, P. (2020) Innovation and job creation in (high-growth) new firms. Industrial and Corporate Change, 
29 (3), 731-756. 
*Soto‐Simeone, A., Sirén, C., & Antretter, T. (2020) New venture survival: A review and extension. 
International Journal of Management Reviews, 22, 378-407. 
Stam, E., & van de Ven, A. (2019) Entrepreneurial ecosystem elements. Small Business Economics, DOI: 
10.1007/s11187-019-00270-6. 
Startupgenome (2020) The Global Startup Ecosystem Report 2020 (GSER2020). available at: 
https://startupgenome.com/reports/gser2020 [Accessed on March, 3rd 2021]. 
Stinchcombe, A.L. (1965) Organizations and social structure. In: March, J.G. (Ed.) Handbook of Organizations. 
Chicago, IL: Rand McNally, pp. 153-93. 
Tranfield, D., Denyer, D. & Smart, P. (2003) Towards a methodology for developing evidence-informed 
management knowledge by means of systematic review. British Journal of Management, 14 (3), 207-
222. 
Wang, J. (2012) Survival factors for Free Open Source Software projects: A multi-stage perspective. European 
Management Journal, 30 (4), 352-371. 
Wright, M., Pruthi, S., & Lockett, A. (2005) International venture capital research: From cross-country 
comparisons to crossing borders. International Journal of Management Reviews, 7 (3), 135–165. 
Yang, T., & Aldrich, H. E. (2017) “The liability of newness” revisited: Theoretical restatement and empirical 
testing in emergent organizations. Social Science Research, 63, 36-53. 
Zhang, W., & White, S. (2016). Overcoming the liability of newness: Entrepreneurial action and the emergence 
of China's private solar photovoltaic firms. Research Policy, 45 (3), 604-617. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
578 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Partnership as glue for People Planet 
and Profit in an MNEs market entry 
strategy: the case of solar energy in 
Ghana 
 
Julia G. Smid and Bartjan Pennink  
University of Groningen 
j.g.smid.1@student.rug.nl  
Extended abstract 
In 2015 the United Nations (hereafter: UN) together committed to achieving the Sustainable 
Development Goals (hereafter: SDGs) by 2030 (UN, 2015). Multinational enterprises (hereafter: 
MNEs)  as powerful entities should take a leading role in achieving the SDGs since they can easily 
transcend national boundaries, and their resources often exceed those of nation-states (Dicken, 
2007; Hoffman, 2018). But why are MNEs not that eager to pay more attention to the people and 
planet values, as introduced by Eklington (1997)?  
Nowadays, firms mainly focus on their financial performance while mitigating their negative social 
and environmental influence (Hoffman, 2018; Van Zanten & Van Tulder, 2018). These firms 
generate acceptable economic returns for their investors and simultaneously create valued societal 
returns to the local community in which they do business (Hart & Milstein, 2003; London, 2008; 
London & Hart, 2004). It might be much more valuable for firms to pay attention to the SDGs. By 
letting the people and planet values play a more prominent role in their market entry strategies, it 
could result in more stable profit expectations not just in the short term but also in the longer term. 
Sustainability problems, and thus the SDGs, are complex and systematic, meaning that together 
they constitute a network of interconnected issues (Le Blanc, 2015; Weitz et al., 2018). The complex 
and interconnected nature of the SDGs asks for an approach that goes beyond “business as usual”  
(Scheyvens et al., 2016). Individual sectors are not able to solve these problems by themselves. 
Therefore, companies should strive to form partnerships with local actors from the public sector 
and civil society sectors (hereafter: multi-sector partnerships). It is thus not sufficient when firms 
only focus on profit, people, and planet (3P’s) from their own perspective, they should also include 
local actors. Special attention in these partnerships should be paid to those most in need, the most 
vulnerable and poorest part of the local communities in which firms operate, the so-called base of 
the pyramid (Hereafter: BoP) (Manta, 2017; Prahalad & Hammond, 2002).  In this paper, we want 
to investigate how companies together with local partners, can include people, planet, and profit 
in a more interconnected way. These partnerships, as we will show, are critical for achieving the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
579 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
SDGs by 2030 and through these partnerships MNEs can broaden their role in sustainable 
development and play a more active role in achieving the SDGs (Kolk, Van Tulder & Kostwinder, 
2008; Reed & Reed, 2009; Seitanidi & Crane, 2009). On top of this, MNEs can contribute to a more 
stable business environment, which will lead to more stable expectations of the profit value. A 
company should thus focus on four instead of three performance indicators; profit, people, planet, 
and partnerships (Hereafter: 4P’s). 
To achieve the SDGs all around the world by 2030, it is important that these goals are also achieved 
in developing regions like Africa. Due to a shortage of financial resources, it is complicated to 
achieve the SDGs on this continent; this makes multi-sector partnerships even more important 
here. Partnerships are the key to achieving the SDGs in Africa (Hoffman, 2018; Odusola, 2017; Van 
Zanten & Van Tulder, 2018). To optimize impact, countries and companies should focus on the SDG 
that has the most impact since not all the SDGs can be integrated all at once. According to Odusola 
(2017), in the case of Africa, this is SDG 7. The aim of SDG 7 is to ensure access to affordable, reliable, 
sustainable, and modern energy for all (UN, 2022). Especially in developing countries, access to 
reliable and affordable energy services is fundamental to reduce poverty, increase access to 
healthcare, increase productivity, enhance competitiveness, and promote economic growth. The 
African continent has a great potential for renewable energy (Bugaje, 2006). This paper will use 
Ghana as a case study for investigating the importance of the fourth P. Ghana has one of the highest 
electricity costs in Sub-Saharan Africa. Nevertheless, Ghana is a very interesting country for MNEs. 
The country is centrally located, connected to the ocean, corruption is relatively low, and Ghana 
ranks relatively high on the ease of doing business index (CPI, 2021; World Bank, 2019). Thus, when 
MNEs decide to do business in Ghana, they are very likely to choose a renewable energy source 
since this option is not only more reliable but also cheaper than regular electricity (BloombergNEF, 
2019). Currently, only 4% of the generated renewable energy in Ghana is solar energy. However, 
this form of renewable energy is very suitable to use in a company setting. It can be used on a small 
scale, and Ghana has sufficient sun hours, on average, 5-8 sun hours a day at 1 kW/m2 (Gyamfi, 
Modjinou, & Djordjevic, 2015). Therefore, within this paper, the importance of the 4th P will be 
demonstrated by looking at the usage of solar energy by the private sector in Ghana. Furthermore, 
the possible implications for a MNEs market entry strategy are investigated.  
When a MNE adopts solar technology as an energy source, the energy supply generated will be 
higher than the demand from time to time. A solution can be designed where the excess capacity 
can be used to create social and environmental value at the BoP. Through this solution, MNEs can 
alleviate poverty and improve the social well-being of disadvantaged communities in lower income 
markets by creating solutions that reduce inequalities and empower the base of the pyramid (Kolk, 
Rivera-Santos, & Rufín, 2014; Prahalad, 2004; Prahalad & Hammond, 2002). According to Broeksma 
and Pennink (2021), the local context of the BoP and the involvement of the government with MNEs 
is different in every country. These local differences can only be understood through multi-sector 
partnerships. It is thus expected that these solutions are only feasible when MNEs participate in 
multi-sector partnerships and include the fourth P in their market entry strategy.  
The design of such a new business model requires research. Literature will be reviewed, and in total, 
twelve semi-structured interviews will be conducted. Six interviews with MNEs that are currently 
doing business in Ghana or plan to do so in the near future. Furthermore, three experts on solar 
energy and three experts on business development in Ghana will be interviewed.  Participants will 
be chosen through a combination of purposeful sampling and convenience sampling. Each 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
580 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
interview will be transcribed and analyzed afterwards. By combining a literature review with 
interviewing both MNEs and experts, important insight will come to light, which will lead to the 
development of a new business model where people, planet and profit are included in a more 
interconnected way through the participation in local partnerships. 
Keywords  
SDGs, Solar energy, Partnerships, MNEs, New market entry, Value creation, Base of the pyramid 
References 
BloombergNEF (2019) Solar for Businesses in Sub-Saharan Africa. 
Broeksma, M. and Pennink, B. J. W. (2021) Integrating general and local context-dependent factors into a 
framework for analysing business sectors in Bottom-of-the-Pyramid emerging markets. The Central 
European 
Review 
of 
Economics 
and 
Management. 
5(2), 
85–118. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.29015/cerem.913. 
Bugaje, I. M. (2006) Renewable energy for sustainable development in Africa: a review. Renewable and 
Sustainable Energy Reviews. 10(6), 603–612. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.rser.2004.11.002. 
CPI 
(2021) 
Corruption 
Perception 
Index. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.transparency.org/en/cpi/2021?gclid=EAIaIQobChMImPrL7Kvw9QIVxeJ3Ch38GgwSEA
AYASAAEgJovfD_BwE [Accessed: February 9, 2022]. 
Dicken, P. (2007) Global shift: Mapping the changing contours of the world economy. 5th ed. New York, 
Guilford Publications. 
Elkington, J., 1997. The triple bottom line. Environmental management: Readings and cases. 2, 49-66. 
Gyamfi, S., Modjinou, M. and Djordjevic, S. (2015) Improving electricity supply security in Ghana—The 
potential of renewable energy. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews. 43, 1035–1045. 
Available from: doi:10.1016/j.rser.2014.11.102. 
Hart, S. L. and Milstein, M. B. (2003) Creating sustainable value. Academy of Management Perspectives. 17(2), 
34–39. 
Hoffman, A. J. (2018) The next phase of business sustainability. SSRN Electronic Journal. Available from: 
doi:10.2139/ssrn.3191035. 
Kolk, A., Rivera-Santos, M. and Rufín, C. (2014) Reviewing a decade of research on the ‘base/bottom of the 
pyramid’ (BOP) concept. Business and society. 53(3), 338–377. doi:10.1177/0007650312474928. 
Kolk, A., van Tulder, R. and Kostwinder, E. (2008) Business and partnerships for development. European 
management journal. 26(4), 262–273. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.emj.2008.01.007. 
Le Blanc, D. (2015) Towards Integration at Last? The Sustainable Development Goals as a Network of Targets: 
The sustainable development goals as a network of targets. Sustainable development. 23(3), 176–
187. Available from: doi:10.1002/sd.1582. 
London, T. (2008) The base-of-the-pyramid perspective: A new approach to poverty alleviation. Academy of 
Management proceedings. 2008(1), 1–6. Available from: doi:10.5465/ambpp.2008.33716520. 
London, T. and Hart, S. L. (2004) Reinventing strategies for emerging markets: beyond the transnational 
model. 
Journal 
of 
international 
business 
studies. 
35(5), 
350–370. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1057/palgrave.jibs.8400099. 
Manta, O. (2017). The 5 P of the 21st Century: People, Planet, Prosperity, Peace and Partnership. In: The 30th 
IBIMA conference, in Madrid, Spain. pp. 8-9. 
Odusola, A., 2017. Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals in Africa in the context of complex global 
development cooperation. 8th Annual Ibadan Sustainable Development Summit, Ibadan, Nigeria. 
22-24. Available from: doi:10.2139/ssrn.3101776. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
581 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Prahalad, C. (2004) The fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid. Economic affairs, 28(4). Available from: 
doi:10.1111/j.1468-0270.2008.864_4.x. 
Prahalad, C. K. and Hammond, A. (2002) Serving the world’s poor, profitably. Harvard business review. 80(9), 
48–57. 
Reed, A.M. and Reed, D., 2009. Partnerships for development: Four models of business involvement. Journal 
of Business Ethics, 90(1), 3-37. Available from: doi:10.1108/dlo.2010.08124cad.008. 
Scheyvens, R., Banks, G. and Hughes, E. (2016) The private sector and the SDGs: The need to move beyond 
‘business as usual’: The private sector and the SDGs: Moving beyond ‘business-as-usual. Sustainable 
development. 24(6), 371–382. Available from: doi:10.1002/sd.1623. 
Seitanidi, M. M. and Crane, A. (2009) Implementing CSR through partnerships: Understanding the selection, 
design and institutionalisation of nonprofit-business partnerships. Journal of business ethics. 85(S2), 
413–429. doi:10.1007/s10551-008-9743-y. 
UN (2015). Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. New York, United 
Nations.  
UN (2022) Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. Available at: 
https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal7 [Accessed: February 9, 2022]. 
Weitz, N. et al. (2018) Towards systemic and contextual priority setting for implementing the 2030 Agenda. 
Sustainability science. 13(2), 531–548. doi:10.1007/s11625-017-0470-0. 
World Bank (2019) Ease of doing business rank (1=most business-friendly regulations). Available at: 
https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/IC.BUS.EASE.XQ?view=map [Accessed: February 9, 2022]. 
van Zanten, J. A. and van Tulder, R. (2018) Multinational enterprises and the Sustainable Development Goals: 
An institutional approach to corporate engagement. Journal of international business policy. 1(3–4), 
208–233. Available from: doi:10.1057/s42214-018-0008-x. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
582 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 2.4 - Resilience and Profitability 
through Sustainability for Financial 
Intermediaries, Markets and Corporate 
Finance 
Track chairs: Claudio Giannotti, Giovanni Ferri, Lucia 
Gibilaro (LUMSA University) 
 
The rethinking of the business models to take the opportunities enabled by the 
information technology and the emerging of ESG considerations played a distinctive role 
in strengthening the resilience of financial intermediaries during the Covid-19 outbreak 
and they represent the seeds to raise new paths to both enhance profitability and 
deliver lasting impacts. Following the sustainability driven change, innovative financial 
products and services are available to satisfy financial needs and organizational 
structures, processes and systems are revised coherently.  
This track explores the factors affecting the resilience and the innovations caused by the 
digital and green transition in financial intermediation. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
583 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Online invoice trading market- A 
case study driven by Big Data 
 
Giannotti C1., Gibilaro L.2, Mattarocci G.3, Mihai- Yiannaki S.4   
1Lumsa University; 2Lumsa University; 3University of Rome “Tor 
Vergata”; 4European University Cyprus 
*S.Mihai@euc.ac.cy  
 
Abstract 
Digitalization in the financial industry is changing the banking industry by modifying the business 
environment and favoring the digital combination between borrowers’ demand and lenders’ 
offer. As a consequence, the new players hire human resources with advanced IT and AI skills in 
order to better manage the credit risk assumed. 
Focusing on new technology applications to financial services, the paper analyses the fintech 
industry and points out the difference in the measurement and management of credit risk with 
respect to traditional lenders. Based on a case study on a leading fintech company in the invoice 
discounting market, the paper evaluates the opportunities offered by technology for reducing 
the probability of default and the loss given default and increasing the percentage of forborne 
loans and the probability to be cured. Results support the hypothesis that digital transformation 
is a disruptive innovation that will change the banking operation model and will increase the 
frequency and the quality of the interactions between the employees of the lender and the 
borrowers in order to manage credit risk exposures. Thus, it emerges that the new challenges in 
the financial sector concern also the ethical implications of default monitoring and control in the 
B2B and financial intermediaries relationship, beyond the availability of workforce upskilled in 
advanced IT and AI tools. 
JEL codes: O33, O32, G23, G21 
Keywords  
Fintech, digitalization, credit risk, supply chain finance, workforce 
1. Introduction 
In light of the advance of technology, digitalization is rapidly changing the day to day living style 
of the people. Similarly, digital transformations have also changed the organization design, hiring 
process and management of the employees (Raathi Meena and Parimanarali, 2020).  Digital 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
584 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
transformation is affecting the changing of the business environment which implies the 
transformation of the banking employment previously determined mostly by regulatory 
compliance and technology (Carbo-Valverde, 2017). In the financial services industry, workforce 
management is considered one of the critical success factors (Chhabra and Thangaraj, 2018); it 
affects the risk adjusted performance through the probability of loss due to the inability of the 
financial firm to offer the service correctly because of the insufficient availability of skills required, 
and the risk of revenues, that is the difference between the realized and the revenues the firm 
would have accrued if the offering of the financial service would be successfully delivered (Lu, 
Sharma and Squillante, 2014).  In light of the digital transformation, the operational workload of 
employees can be reduced, favoring the focusing on relationships and the appointment of expert 
employees to more value added activities (Serengil and Ozpinar, 2017). Nonetheless, the type of 
human capital affects the impact of digital transformation on financial transactions, pointing out 
that traditional banks workforce is featured by lower capabilities in information based-services 
(Carbo Valverde and Fernandez, 2020). 
The role of the workforce management is particularly relevant in financial relationships with SMEs 
suffering of a lack of financing resources available for supporting their business: the 
organizational choices of the financial intermediary affect the acquisition of information (Stein, 
2002) and the cognitive constraints and interpretation biases of the employees can determine 
the overlooking of some information sources over others (Campbel, Loumioti and Wittenberg-
Moerman, 2019).  At the same time, following the development of the lending offer through 
platforms enabled by the digital transformation, the demand of services offered by Fintech is 
growing due to the ability to select borrowers in a timely manner and to offer convenient pricing 
conditions with respect to traditional lenders due to higher lender customer interactions and the 
reduction of human errors enabled by the digital technology (Berg, Fuster, Puri 2021). In some 
geographic areas, fintech firms became the substantial source of credit for small businesses 
(Federal Reserve, 2019) and such role has increased during the Covid-19 outbreak through both 
the direct distribution of loans (U.S. Small Business Administration, 2020) and the distribution  of 
loans by traditional banks on behalf of fintech lenders (Federal Reserve, 2020), with evidence that 
such expansion in small business lending benefits largely those businesses (Barkley and 
Schweizer, 2021). 
The type of loans offered to small business borrowers are frequently asset based lending financial 
facilities in which the fintech company may reduce the overall risk exposure by using the asset 
provided as a collateral to seize in the case of default (Everett, 2014). Among asset based lending 
solutions for SMEs, invoice discounting represents the most important source of short term 
financing that, on the basis of the quality and the size of the revenues, may give access to the 
capital markets without the issuing of securities (Zhang et al. 2016). With an estimated global 
market of e-invoicing reaching €18 bln by 2025, from € 4.3 bln in 2019, (Billentis, 2019), the 
evolution of the technology aspect, more specifically the fintech becomes critical in such 
repetitive transactions lead mostly by regulations. The type of loans offered to small business 
borrowers are frequently asset based lending financial facilities in which the fintech company 
may reduce the overall risk exposure by using the asset provided as a collateral to seize in the 
case of default (Everett, 2014).  
Empirical works have shown that fintech investments expose investors to more financial risks 
compared with no-fintech investments, but have higher value adding (Najaf, Schinckus and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
585 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Yoong, 2021). Preliminary empirical evidence points out that fintech loans are frequently facing 
a higher counterparty risk because the customers that look for their financial services are 
normally those that are already suffering of financial constrains in the standard lending (OECD, 
2015), therefore risk management represents a strategic tool in order to make the proper 
screening and monitoring of the exposures. The lack of past experience that may characterize the 
new players in the lending industry is an issue for selecting the best customers, even though 
artificial intelligence can provide new instruments to overcome such limitations. Available 
empirical evidence on the performance in borrower selection of humans versus machines shows 
that a combination of machine-generated credit model and human intervention can improve 
results relative to the machine-generated credit model (Costello, Down and Mehta, 2020). 
Our paper considers the database of Marketfinance, a UK company representing one of the 
leading players in the fintech industry for the financial services offered to SMEs. (Dorfleitner, Rad 
and Weber, 2017).  Collecting information from the loan book, the empirical analysis will evaluate 
the degree of forbearance in the credit portfolio, measure the probability of default of the 
portfolio of customers by considering all the borrowers and the assigned trade debtors with the 
classification by the size of the exposure, the time horizon of the lending solution and the type of 
invoice discounting solution. The analysis will measure the probability of default, the probability 
to be cured and the loss given default. The analysis explores the hypothesis that the ability of the 
workforce in risk management can be empowered by digital transformation applications, by 
comparing the credit risk parameters between fintech and traditional financial intermediaries in 
the UK banking system ones.  
Results obtained are useful in order to foster the effectiveness of risk management skills in the 
industry (Giudici, 2018) and to outline the differences in the role of each risk driver with respect 
to the expected loss (Stiglitz and Weiss, 1981; Dorfleitner et al., 2016; Wei and Lin, 2016). The 
comparison of the results achieved with the statistics for the traditional lending market allows to 
highlight the differences in the risk drivers for new players and to support the thesis about the 
difference in the target customers that will prefer to use the new type of lenders.  More generally, 
results obtained add insight to credit risk management in the field of trade and supply chain 
finance, covering the post pandemic timeframe also. 
The paper is structured as follows: section 2 discusses about the digital transformation in the 
banking sector and its implication for the customer relationship lending and the risk management 
process in a contextual framework, and section 3 presents a case study on a leading player in the 
UK fintech industry. The case study analysis will consider the balance sheet and the loan book 
and it will provide evidence in the differences in the risk management drivers with respect to 
standard lenders in the UK industry. 
 
2. Literature review 
Digital transformation is disrupting the financial sector (Boot, Hoffmann, Laeven  and Ratnovski, 
2021) with mixed effects on the internal processes of financial firms involved in 
lending:digitalisation of front and back office is part of the business model of fintech firms, while 
banks show a widespread advancement of the digitalisation mainly in the front office (Fitzgerald, 
Kruschwitz, Bonnet and Welch, 2013).  Automation and centralization allow the focalization of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
586 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the workforce in the underwriting process with the facilitation of the capacity adjustment 
(Serengil and Ozpinar, 2017). Fintech loans are frequently facing a higher counterparty risk 
because the customers are normally those that are already suffering of financial constrains in the 
standard lending market and so the portfolio of loans is affected by the adverse selection (OECD, 
2015).  The application of artificial intelligence enhances risk prediction, particularly in loans to 
small and medium sized enterprises that can be extended also to high risk vendors because of 
the better prediction of the loss rate by the internal rating systems compared with the credit 
bureau ratings (Frost, Gambacorta, Huang, Shin, Zbinden, 2019). As a matter of fact, fintech 
lenders use non- traditional data and sophisticated applications to select borrowers (Valleè and 
Zeng, 2019), especially for the provision of credit by large technology firms toward also unbanked 
borrowers (Bank for International Settlements, 2019). Such advantage is motivated by the better 
prediction of the default rate due not only to the high granularity of the data covering traditional 
and platform proprietary data, but also it arises from exploiting the network structure between 
vendors and customers that better describes the firm characteristics and its environment 
(Gambacorta, Huang, Li, Qiu and Chen, 2020), particularly for entities in smaller cities (Huang, 
Zhang, Li, Qiu, Sun, Wang and Berger, 2020).  
Nonetheless, available empirical evidence shows that the extension of the information sources 
and the application of new methodologies is not able to replace completely the soft information 
that loan officers can develop in the financial relationship with the debtor (Berg, Burg, Gombovic 
et Puri, 2020).  Even though at the moment the disentangling between selecting and monitoring 
of debtors is not trivial, empirical evidence shows that the empowerment of humans determined 
by the digital disruption impacts credit risk measures. The customers of digital lending platforms 
are found to be delinquent at a substantial higher rate and they use new funds obtained to 
support new expenses (Di Maggio and Yao, 2021), drawing concern that fintech companies 
finance overleveraged borrowers (Wang and Overbey, 2018) replacing former large and out-the 
market lenders due to the higher efficiency inprocessing soft information (Balyuk, Berger and 
Hackney, 2020) and that when interest rates are too high the  mitigation of adverse selection is 
weak (Serrano-Cinca, Gutierrez-Neto and Lopez-Palacios, 2015). It is to underline that the 
empirical evidences for residential mortgage lending are mixed, because  fintech debtors are 
found creditworthy and similar with respect to traditional banks (Buchack, Matvos, Piskorki and 
Seru, 2018) and  riskier borrowers are associated with lower delinquency rates (Fuster, Plosser, 
Schnabl and Vickery, 2019). Looking at the workout process of distressed exposures, recovery 
rates show that personal communication and the interactions with the borrowers allows to 
obtain a better performance than in fully automated procedures (Laudenbach, Pirschel, Siegel, 
2021).  Moving to exposures toward small and medium businesses, digital platforms cater to high 
quality, high profitability and low risk firms (Eça, Ferreira, Prado and Rizzo, 2022). Additionally, 
during the Covid-19, the reduction of fintech loans toward such entities was mainly driven by 
supply side effects determined more by the financial constraint channel, while le uncertainty 
channel appears to play a weaker effect (Ben-David, Johnson and Stulz, 2021). 
Focusing on online invoice discounting, allowing firms to anticipate the value of trade credits, but 
also future credits from contracts, licenses, and retailers against the payment of an upfront fee 
that represents a percentage of the funds obtained, short term probability of default predictions 
are of existential importance, representing the ability and preparedness of the 
company/borrower to pay an exact instance in the financial traffic (Leow e Crook, 2014). Through  
the digital footprints of the borrowers and the retaining of business loans by such platforms 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
587 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
(Claessens, Frost, Turner and Zhu, 2018), the probability of payment of the invoice within a 
certain period can be obtained by integrating the analysis of the probability of defaults with the 
analysis of the recurring behavior of the debtors observed during the payment of invoices, 
distinguishing between individual invoices, counterparties, branches and groups, and evaluating 
the affinity of the single debtor with respect to them (Perko, 2017). From a methodological point 
of view, first applications highlight the potential of machine learning techniques for forecasting 
overdue payments within short-term thresholds supporting an instant lending decision for a 
modest clear-cut defaulting process (Cohen, Verbeke and Guns, 2021). Finance industry has been 
utilized already machine learning primarily in credit checking and fraud investigation, while now 
it is used in loan approval and risk assessment (Goldstein Research, 2017). Moreover, it is not 
only the robotic process automation leading to workforce cost cut via technology transformation, 
but also the digitalisation, the optimization of the financial supply chain, the advancement of the 
blockchain technology, the machine learning based on cognitive robots using learning algorithms, 
the shift towards cloud and advanced analytics that interfere within the artificial intelligence 
compound (Billentis, 2019). Frey and Osborne (2013) speculate that due to robotic process 
automation, by 2035, many jobs in the area of invoice processing will be lost, especially new 
accounts, clerks, data entry keyers, order clerks, procurement clerks, claims adjusters, examiners 
and investigators, bookkeeping, accounting clerks, credit authorizers, checkers, billing and 
posting clerks, surveying and mapping technicians, etc. Such technologies not only reduce human 
intervention, detect fraud, forecast liquidity, provide dynamic pricing or even produce customer 
trading partner scoring and customer complaint resolution, but also spur the level of business 
intelligence and efficiency. Additionally, in B2B networks for the financial supply chain which use 
big data in e-invoicing market, advanced analytics and cloud based big data grow 4.5 times faster 
than on-premises solutions. (Billentins, 2019). 
Looking at the facility features and the influence on credit risk, the available empirical evidences 
show that some facility features, namely the interest rate, the duration and the percentage 
funded have good predictive power of loss events (Dorfleitner, Rad and Weber, 2017). Lastly, 
economic cycle fluctuations can affect fintech loans as the origination is based on data rather 
than customer relationships (Financial Stability Board, 2019), even though during the Covid-19 
crisis fintech financial services have been disproportionally used in industries and areas severely 
affected (Erel and Liebersohn, 2020). 
If we are to share the interconnecting links in the e-invoicing market, the following diagram may 
provide some structural answers: 
Figure 1. E-Invoice discounting interaction framework. 
COVID-
19 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
588 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Source: Authors’ elaboration. 
Since the outbreak of COVID-19 crisis at planetary level, in a survey study by 
UNCTAD/DTL/STICT/INF/2020/2 (2020), it seems that this crisis has affected severely the 
business turnover, employment, the cost structure and the workforce size of many businesses 
surveyed. For example, about 66% of all respondent businesses saw their costs raising, while 44% 
of them reported a reduction in their workforce, besides an e-commerce skills inadequate 
workforce to sustain change in demand, limited enterprise tools and business support services. 
Despite a necessary rise of the e-commerce worldwide due to COVID-19 for survival and 
resilience reasons, it emerged that not all types of businesses could adapt, only 18% were 
expanding their business. 
In the E-Invoice discounting interaction framework of Fig. 1. we present under a 5 step 
interconnection, the benefit in the risk management in readapting the strategy related to a skilled 
workforce and a reduced e-payment cost, translated into a reduced cost for e-transations and e-
invoice discounting (UNCTAD/DTL/STICT/INF/2020/2, (2020), pp.32), as top priorities in each 
country resilience plan post COVID-19. In order to enhance resilence and recovery plans, e-
invoice discounting firms utilised for workforce communication, training yet, also for transaction 
cost reduction various AI tools that lead to default risk reduction, increase cure rates, while 
adding efficiency to the value chain process, and provide a more effective risk management, 
overall. 
However, at the same time several serious aspects regarding regulators and policy makers relate 
to the ethics of utilising future blochchain and other various AI related technologies in improving 
cost efficiency in e-invoice discounting. For example, Cowton and San-Jose stated: “Delay (or, 
even worse, default, the possibility of which tends to increase with delay) in paying by customers, 
especially major ones, can have severe, if not fatal, financial consequences for suppliers, which 
1. Risk 
Management
2. Skilled 
workforce
3. AI Tools 
4. E-invoice 
discounting
5. Ethics 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
589 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
in turn has repercussions for their own suppliers and other stakeholders, such as employees.” 
(Cowton and San-Jose 2017, p. 675). From this critical perspective, in Crowe (2020) paper, various 
ethical matters on trade credit are raised at the essence of invoice financing, among which involve 
government choices, regulatory sandboxes (live experiments conducted in a controlled 
environment under a regulator's supervision), and other set of minimum set of ethical standards 
in fintech and trading. These aspects regard utilizing AI tools in setting up pricing, control and 
monitoring, default and recovery and conflict resolution.  
3. Case study 
3.1 Company description 
The empirical analysis focuses on Marketfinance, a UK company representing one of the leading 
players in the fintech industry for the financial services offered to SMEs (Dorfleitner, Rad and 
Weber, 2017).  The platform was founded in 2011, it is headquartered in London, U.K., with 
70,633 trades settled, who reached £4bn of cumulative invoices and business loans funded 
(Marketfinance, 2021) and it is growing over time (Table 1). 
 
Table 1. A comparison of the MarketFinance portfolio with the average UK 
traditional lenders 
 
UK market* 
MarketFinance 
Total 
Loan
s  
(mln 
£) 
N°lend
ers 
N° 
empl
oyee
s 
Averag
e loans 
by 
lender  
(mln £) 
Avera
ge 
loans 
per 
emplo
yee 
Total 
loans 
N° 
employ
ees 
Averag
e loans 
per 
employ
ee 
20
11 
£ 
5,02
1.48 
86 
1454
492 
£ 58.39 
£ 
3,452.
39 
- 
- 
- 
20
12 
£ 
5,03
2,34 
88 
1493
568 
£ 57,19 
£ 
3,369.
34 
£ 
45,530.
00 
-** 
-** 
20
13 
£ 
5,12
6,59 
137 
1428
724 
£ 37,42 
£ 
3,588.
23 
£ 
88,787.
00 
-** 
-** 
20
14 
£ 
5,14
0,77 
143 
1420
791 
£ 35,95 
£ 
3,618.
24 
£ 
177,083
.00 
-** 
-** 
20
15 
£ 
5,09
4.31 
170 
1335
923 
£ 29,97 
£ 
3,813.
33 
£ 
276,757
.00 
62 
£ 
4,463.
82 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
590 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
20
16 
£ 
5,27
9.55 
171 
1262
425 
£ 30,87 
£ 
4,182.
07 
£ 
469,838
.00 
89 
£ 
5,279.
08 
20
17 
£ 
5,12
0.78 
168 
1077
715 
£ 30,48 
£ 
4,751.
52 
£ 
569,001
.00 
77 
£ 
7,389.
62 
20
18 
£ 
5,26
6.92 
174 
1132
086 
£ 30,27 
£ 
4,652.
40 
£ 
740,715
.00 
80 
£ 
9,258.
94 
20
19 
£ 
5,47
7.65 
175 
1172
971 
£ 31,30 
£ 
4,669.
90 
£ 
31,016,
723.00 
129 
£ 
240,43
9.71 
20
20 
£ 
5,65
9.29 
167 
1136
211 
£ 33,89 
£ 
4,980.
85 
£ 
46,167,
917.00 
124 
£ 
372,32
1.91 
Notes:  
* The UK market sample considers all the financial institutions in the Bank Focus database 
provided by Bureau Van Dijk with a fiscal domicile in UK. In the case of institutions that are 
members of a group only the group balance sheet is considered. 
** From 2012 to 2014 MarketFinance was authorized to publish simplified annual reports in which 
the number of employees is not disclosed. 
Source: MarketFinance and Bureau Van Dijk data processed by the authors 
Outstanding loans were at the end of the year lower than 50000 £ and they reached more than 
46 mln £ at the end of 2020 reaching a size higher than the average of the UK traditional lenders. 
The number of employees is also grown in the time horizon moving from less than 50 employees 
during the first three years of activity to 124 in 2020 but thanks to the opportunity offered by the 
technology the average amount of loan outstanding by each employee is significantly higher than 
those of other lenders in UK. 
Firms are not requested to fund the entire sales ledger, therefore they can subscribe a contract 
implying the payment of a monthly fee or they can decide to pay each time a percentage of the 
face value of the invoice. The advantages of the invoice discounting platform, among others are 
speedy lending, easy interface, real-time support, no hidden costs, flexible terms and strong 
reputation. 
The sample considers the full loan book of Marketfinance over the time period 2011-2021 and 
descriptive statistics show that the quantitative features of the trades vary inside ample ranges. 
(Table 2).  The growth of the portfolio is costant over the years, out of the 2020 that is coherent 
with the general sharp decline in fintech lending following the spreading of Covid-19 observed 
internationally (Dixit, 2021). 
Table 2. Vintage and number of loan advances by year 
Vintage 
Number 
Percentage on the totale 
sample 
2011 
116 
0,16% 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
591 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2012 
590 
0,82% 
2013 
1145 
1,60% 
2014 
2743 
3,83% 
2015 
5819 
8,12% 
2016 
7267 
10,14% 
2017 
7394 
10,31% 
2018 
10294 
14,36% 
2019 
12265 
17,11% 
2020 
11011 
15,36% 
2021 
13046 
18,20% 
Source: MarketFinance data processed by the authors 
 
For each exposure the platform provides the full loan book with data related to the pricing 
condition, the contract features and, in the event of default, the losses related to the recovery 
process. (Table 3). 
 
Table 3. Descriptive statistics  
 
Variable 
Mean  
Min 
Max 
Advance Rate (%) 
74.79% 
0.00% 
177.75% 
Discount Rate (%) 
0.81% 
0.18% 
3.70% 
Annualised Gross 
Yield (%) 
10.69% 
2.21% 
55.59% 
Total Face Value 
(GBP) 
 £55,159.93  
 £ 0    
 £ 36,792,828.69  
Total Gross 
Advance (GBP)  
 £35,565.38  
 £ 0    
 £ 1,507,253.21  
Total Delinquent 
Outstanding 
(GBP)  
 £8099.75  
 £ 0 
 £ 523,074.36  
Total Crystallized 
Losses (GBP)  
 £5899.38  
 £ 0 
 £ 488,898.76  
Source: MarketFinance data processed by the authors 
 
The average advance rate percentage is around 74.8% and the discount rate may vary from 0.18% 
up to 3.70%. The cost of borrowing is around 10.7% but for riskier and shorter time horizon loans 
the interest rate applies may be even higher that 50%. The average face value for loans is quite 
small and near to 55,000 £ with an average gross advance of more than 35000 £. In the event of 
default the average amount of exposure at default (around 8100 £) is significantly lower than the 
average gross advance and the total losses at the end of the recovery process is less than 5900£ 
with an high variability contract by contract. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
592 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
3.2 Methodology for credit risk analysis 
The analysis of the credit risk management policy is focused on the incidence of the forbearance 
activity in the portfolio of loans and its effectiveness in reducing the frequency of default and loss 
given default. 
The analysis of the forbearance activity is released by following the EBA guidelines approach (EBA, 
2021) as it follows (1): 
 
𝐹𝑅𝑡= 𝐹𝑜𝑟𝑒𝑏𝑜𝑟𝑛𝑒𝑡
𝐿𝑜𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑡
 
(1) 
 
where Forebornet is the number of loans under a forbearance process in year t and Loanst is the 
number of loans outstanding at year t. As benchmarking the value of the foreberance ratio is 
compared with the average benchmark at country level in order to underline differences in the 
management policy of defaulted entities. 
In order to assess default risk in fintech payments, which mainly includes unlisted entities, 
following Carey and Hrycay (2001) the quantification of the probability of default is developed 
using the actuarial-based method as it follows (2): 
 
𝑃𝐷𝑡= 𝐷𝑒𝑓𝑎𝑢𝑙𝑡𝑡
𝐿𝑜𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑡
 
(2) 
 
where Defaultt is the value of defaulted borrowers in year t and Loanst is the outstanding amount 
of all the loans at the end of year t. As benchmarking the value of the PD is compared with the 
average benchmark at country level in order to underline differences in the management policy 
of defaulted entities. 
To ensure risk measurement consistency in slow payment habits characterizing some sectors and 
regions, default rates must be modified to favor an appropriate interpretation of technical 
defaults, that is, exposures that, after being classified in default because of qualified past dues, 
reenter performing status and/or are terminated without any loss (Calabrese and Zenga, 2010). 
Empirical evidence shows that cash flow performance and residual credit capacity are not 
predictors of distress but can accelerate or delay distress in the presence of structural factors (De 
Leonardis and Rocci 2014). Following Lohman and Ohlinger (2021) the probability to be cured is 
(3): 
 
 
(3) 
 
where n° of credit full refunded is the number of exposures in arrears refunded in year t and 
Advance amountt is the total advanced amount of trades in year t. 
𝑃(𝐶𝑅𝑡) = 𝑁° 𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑠 𝑓𝑢𝑙𝑙𝑦 𝑟𝑒𝑓𝑢𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑑𝑡
𝑁° 𝑑𝑒𝑓𝑎𝑢𝑙𝑡𝑒𝑑 𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑡

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
593 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Once default occurs, the trade credit financier must evaluate the loss that can manifest based on 
the amount of the exposure that will be lost by, because the study of debt recovery processes, 
even in more developed financial markets, usually highlights a success rate below the amount of 
the initial exposure (Covitz and Han 2004). In order to explore the risk of loss more than the risk 
of default, following Dorfleitner, Rad and Weber (2017) we measure the Loss Given Default as it 
follows (4): 
 
𝐿𝐺𝐷𝑡= 𝐶𝑟𝑦𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑧𝑒𝑑 𝐿𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑡
𝐴𝑑𝑣𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒 𝑎𝑚𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡𝑡
 
(4) 
 
where Crystalized Loss is the amount of losses in year t and Advance amountt is the total 
advanced amount of trades in year t. As benchmarking the value of the LGD is compared with the 
average benchmark at country level in order to underline differences in the management policy 
of defaulted entities. 
In order to identify the profile of the defaulted entities among the fintech customers, we 
computed the PD, the probability to be cured, and LGD for portfolios classified on the basis of: 
the vintage, the time to expiration, the size of the exposure and the type of invoice discounting 
solution selected by the assignor.  
 
3.3 Results 
Excluding the first three years of activity in which the platform had a limited number of defaults 
to be managed, the forbearance activity is affecting at least 80 credit exposures by year and it 
represents from the 0.80% to the 2.92% of the overall loans. The forbearance ratio of the fintech 
company is higher than the average value in UK independently with respect to the year selected 
and the gap reach a maximum of 1.38% in 2016 (Table 4). 
Table 4. Forbearance ratio analysis (FR) 
Year 
MarketFinance 
UK market 
N° Forborne 
Forbearance ratio 
Forbearance ratio 
2011 
0 
0.00% 
- 
2012 
42 
6.79% 
- 
2013 
33 
2.72% 
- 
2014 
87 
2.92% 
- 
2015 
120 
1.92% 
1.85% 
2016 
228 
2.81% 
1.43% 
2017 
156 
1.90% 
1.13% 
2018 
180 
1.62% 
0.93% 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
594 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2019 
168 
1.28% 
0.85% 
2020 
225 
1.84% 
0.87% 
2021 
98 
0.80% 
- 
Notes: The EBA survey collected information about the forbearance activity in UK only for the time 
period starting from 2015 up to the Brexit. 
Source: MarketFinance and EBA data processed by the authors 
 
The analysis of the probability of default for the portfolio under management shows PD values 
that are below 2% in the years considered excluding the 2012. The comparison of the risk proxies 
with respect to the average UK market shows a lower incidence of defaults for the full sample 
with a gap that varies from 0.39% in 2016 to 1.41% in 2020 and the gap is even higher if the risk 
proxy is compared to the PD for SMEs in UK that represents the main type of target customer for 
MarketFinance (Table 5). The evidences suggest that the selection procedure of counterparties is 
risk effective and that fintech debtors are not riskier in repaying trade debts with respect to the 
average UK market (Ben-David, Johnson and Stulz, 2021). 
Table 5. Probability of default analysis (PD) 
Year 
MarketFinance 
UK all firms 
UK SMEs 
2011 
0.00% 
- 
- 
2012 
5.98% 
- 
- 
2013 
0.60% 
- 
- 
2014 
1.52% 
- 
- 
2015 
0.60% 
- 
- 
2016 
0.81% 
1.22% 
2.17% 
2017 
0.30% 
1.03% 
2.07% 
2018 
0.28% 
1.20% 
2.68% 
2019 
0.17% 
1.22% 
2.26% 
2020 
0.19% 
1.60% 
2.40% 
2021 
0.05% 
1.11% 
3.37% 
Notes: The EBA survey collected information about the forbearance activity in UK only from 2015. 
Source: MarketFinance and EBA data processed by the authors. 
 
Once the default happened the cure ratio analysis shows that some of the exposures allow to 
recover the in bonis status by refunding the amount not paid and especially in the last two years 
of the time period analysed the probability to be cured increased significantly showing a better 
capability of the platform to manage defaulted exposures on the base of the knowledge of the 
customers developed by humans with the support of artificial intelligence (Table 6).  
Table 6. Probability to be cured analysis (P(CR)) 
Year 
Cured 
Defaults 
P(CR) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
595 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2011 
0 
0 
- 
2012 
0 
42 
0.00% 
2013 
0 
12 
0.00% 
2014 
0 
83 
0.00% 
2015 
0 
75 
0.00% 
2016 
0 
184 
0.00% 
2017 
0 
107 
0.00% 
2018 
3 
149 
2.01% 
2019 
0 
127 
0.00% 
2020 
10 
176 
5.68% 
2021 
51 
55 
92.73% 
Source: MarketFinance data processed by the authors. 
 
In the event of default the recovery process performs better with respect to the average of the 
UK market and the gap is significant even when only SMEs are considered. Independently with 
respect to the year selected the loss given default is always lower than 30% and since 2017 the 
value is also decreasing over time (Table 7). The evidences contribute to support the higher 
effectiveness of the workout process of fintech lenders compared with the overall system. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
596 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 7. Analysis of the Loss Given Default (LGD) 
Year 
MarketFinance 
UK overall market 
UK SMEs 
2011 
8.50% 
- 
- 
2012 
15.37% 
- 
- 
2013 
18.05% 
- 
- 
2014 
8.99% 
- 
- 
2015 
17.44% 
- 
- 
2016 
19.21% 
34.87% 
29.77% 
2017 
29.20% 
34.21% 
27.93% 
2018 
25.23% 
36.34% 
30.19% 
2019 
13.82% 
34.83% 
27.66% 
2020 
6.77% 
35.08% 
27.73% 
2021 
0.00% 
34.47% 
30.67% 
Notes: The EBA survey collected information about the forbearance activity in UK only from 2016. 
Source: MarketFinance and EBA data processed by the authors. 
 
The analysis of PD, P(CR) and LGD shows that the risk drivers vary in the sample with respect to 
the segmentation variables selected (Table 8).  
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
597 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 8. Analysis of PD, P(CR) and LGD for sub-portfolios 
Vintage 
2011 
2012 
2013 
2014 
2015 
2016 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020 
2021 
PD 
5.17% 
6.10% 
1.75% 
3.28% 
1.87% 
2.17% 
1.84% 
1.24% 
1.18% 
1.21% 
0.38% 
P(CR) 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
2.34% 
0.69% 
11.28% 
91.84% 
LGD 
8.50% 
15.37% 
18.05% 
8.99% 
17.44% 
19.21% 
29.20% 
25.23% 
13.82% 
6.77% 
0.00% 
 
TTE (days) 
Expired 
Up to 30 
days 
31-60 days  
61-90 days 
91-120 days 
121-150 
days 
151-180 
days 
Over 180 
days 
PD 
0.00% 
1.33% 
1.32% 
1.58% 
3.27% 
2.89% 
4.12% 
5.34% 
P(CR) 
- 
4.51% 
6.07% 
9.45% 
2.88% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
0.00% 
LGD 
17.20% 
17.16% 
14.45% 
15.95% 
18.45% 
26.96% 
27.19% 
17.20% 
 
Amount (£) 
£<200000 
200001<£<40000
0 
400001<£<60000
0 
600001<£<80000
0 
800001<£<100000
0 
£>1000000 
PD 
1.42% 
0.86% 
1.46% 
0.00% 
3.57% 
0.00% 
P(CR) 
6.02% 
20.00% 
66.67% 
- 
0.00% 
- 
LGD 
16.55% 
24.38% 
27.82% 
- 
0.00% 
- 
 
Type 
Licencing Fee 
Multi Debtor 
Purchase Order 
Standard 
Whole Ledger 
PD 
1.43% 
2.18% 
20.62% 
1.62% 
0.09% 
P(CR) 
0.00% 
2.70% 
0.00% 
6.90% 
0.00% 
LGD 
12.96% 
10.61% 
28.86% 
17.08% 
1.40% 
Source: MarketFinance data processed by the authors

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
598 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
PD has diminished over time, particularly in the last 3 years showing that the growth of the platform 
does not represent an issue (Wang and Overbey, 2018) because it does not target riskier payers (Eça, 
Ferreira, Prado and Rizzo, 2021); additionally, the Covid-19 crisis plays an irrelevant impact on PD in 
a general stressed credit cycle (Altman, 2020). Coherently, with risk assumptions on credit risk, PD 
increases with time to expiration (Fons, 1994) and with the size of the exposure (Lopez, 2004). 
Looking at the type of the exposure, the wider and deeper information set available for the whole 
ledger contracts is associated with lower default probabilities, while previous empirical evidence 
shows the sensitivity of LGD (Gibilaro, 2019). 
Looking at CR, data show a strong increase during last two years, with almost total debtors are cured 
in 2021: this evidence suggests that the Covid-19 crisis determined liquidity issues for trade debtors, 
but they were addressed promptly with the consequence that overdue exposures did not 
determined losses, confirming the risk mitigation of such exposures (Zhang, Baeck, Ziegler, Bone and 
Garvey, 2016). The analysis of the time to expiration shows that after 90 days the probability of the 
exposure to be cured turns to be irrelevant, while smaller size exposures show a higher probability 
to be cured and standard contracts show a higher attitude to return to the be performing compared 
with the other types featured by modest or irrelevant probability to be cured. 
The LGD analysis shows a remarkable increase of the parameter during the central years of the 
timeframe considered, even though the Covid-19 crisis does not increase the impact on the recovery 
procedures, given the increase of the probability to be cure for the same years. The longer is the 
time to expiration, the higher will be the LGD. The importance of the risk parameter decreases with 
the size of the exposure, while purchase orders are featured by the highest LGD level among the 
trades due to the uncertainty in future cash flows with respect to other types of products. 
 
4. Final remarks 
Fintech invoice discounting has grown rapidly during last years, by extending the range of customers 
and types of services provided. Nonetheless, it appears that such growth has not impacted the credit 
risk of the portfolio, particularly in comparison with the overall banking system. Along all the credit 
risk measures considered (FB, PD and LGD), the analysed case study shows that the empowerment 
of the workforce with digital technology is associated with less risk in fintech lending with respect to 
the  overall banking system with enduring effects. Additionally, looking at the disentangled credit 
risk parameters, segmented results are consistent with the overall market about the size of the 
exposure, the time horizon and the type of invoice discounting.   
Results obtained are useful for developing risk management skills in the fintech industry in order to 
outline the differences in the role of each risk driver with respect to the expected loss. Additionally, 
the comparison of the results achieved with the statistics for the traditional lending market will also 
allow to highlight the differences in the risk drivers for new players and to support the thesis about 
the difference in the target customers that will prefer to use the new type of lenders. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
599 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Policy implications can be derived from the results obtained because during the Covid-19 crisis 
fintech financial services have been disproportionally used in industries and areas severely affected 
(Erel and Liebersohn, 2020). 
What regards the sudden digital integration need, nowadays even more accelerated due to the 
Covid-19 crisis, it requires careful approach on building regulatory sandboxes that offer innovators 
the chance to understand customers’ expectations in the financial sector, specifically in the 
payments area. Such regulatory sandboxes, will help participants collect valuable input on designs, 
strategy, processes and ethical aspects related to safer products. (Crowe, 2020). 
To achieve such results under optimum conditions, a specific educational training to SMEs suppliers 
and their human capital on their strategies for digital integration can take place from a bottom up 
approach via expert regulators and governments. Such skills training becomes of relative urgency in 
the financial and trading sector, since one day soon, all the data from trading activities worldwide 
will be analyzed by artificial intelligence in real time. Thus, when safeguarding financial stability 
through internal control mechanisms, in order to build a secure digital network, governments need 
to start from the bottom up with the small businesses’ financial sustainability. 
 
References  
Altman, E. 2020. “Covid-19 and the Credit Cycle.”, Journal of Credit Risk 16 (2): 1-28. 
Balyuk, T., Berger A., and Hackney J, (2020), “What is fueling FinTech lending? The role of banking market 
structure”, Unpublished working paper, University of South Carolina. 
Bank for International Settlements 2019. “Big techs in finance: Opportunities and Risks”, BIS Annual Economic 
Report,  https://www.bis.org/publ/arpdf/ar2019e3.htm  
Barkley, B., and M. Schweitzer 2021. “The Rise of Fintech Lending to Small Businesses: Businesses’ Perspectives 
on Borrowing.” International Journal of Central Banking 17 (1): 35-65. 
Ben-David I., Johnson M., Stulz R. (2021),  “Why did small business fintech lending dry up during march 2020?”, 
NBER working paper, n.29205. 
Berg, T., V. Burg, A. Gombovi, and M. Puri 2020. “On the Rise of FinTechs: Credit Scoring using Digital 
Footprints.” Review of Financial Studies 33 (7): 2845-2897. 
Berg T., A. Fuster, and M. Puri M. (2021), “Fintech Lending”, NBER working paper n.29421, 
https://www.nber.org/papers/w29421   
Billentis B.K. 2019. The e-invoicing journey 2019-2025. Bruno Koch Billenits, Forth Edition, September 2019,  
https://www.billentis.com/The_einvoicing_journey_2019-2025.pdf  
Boccuzzi G. 2015. “Crediti in sofferenza e crisi bancarie.” http://www.ipeistituto. it/master/images/file-
pdf/convegni/GiuseppeBoccuzzi_Convegno11dicembre2015.pdf 
Bonini S., and G. Caivano 2013. “The Survival Analysis Approach in Basel II Credit Risk Management: Modeling 
Danger Rates in the Loss Given Default Parameter,” Journal of Credit Risk 9 (1): 101–118. 
Boot, A., Hoffmann, P., Laeven, L., & Ratnovski, L. (2021). “Fintech: what’s old, what’s new?”, Journal of 
Financial Stability, 53: 100836. 
Buchak G., G. Matvos, T. Piskorski and A. Seru 2018. “Fintech, regulatory arbitrage, and the rise of shadow 
banks.” Journal of Financial Economics 130 (3): 453-483. 
Calabrese R., and M. Zenga 2010. “Bank loan recovery rates: Measuring and nonparametric density 
estimation.” Journal of Banking and Finance 34 (5): 903– 911. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
600 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Campbell D., M. Loumioti, and R. Wittenberg-Moerman 2019. “Making sense of soft information: 
interpretation bias and loan quality.” Journal of Accounting and Economics 68 (2–3): 1-38. 
Carbo-Valverde S. 2017. “The impact on digitalization on banking and financial stability.” Journal of Financial 
Management, Markets and Institutions 5 (1): 133-140. 
Carbo-Valverde S., and F. Fernandez 2020. “Financial digitalization: banks, fintech, bigtech and consumers.” 
Journal of Financial Management, Markets and Institutions 8 (1): 1-13. 
Carey M., and M. Hrycay 2001. “Parameterizing Credit Risk Models with Rating Data.” Journal of Banking and 
Finance 25 (1): 197–270. 
Chhabra N., and V. Thangaraj 2018. “Workforce challenges in Indian banking scenario – Journey from 
identification till mitigation.” Current Science 115 (4): 739-747. 
Claessens S., J. Frost, G. Turner, F. and Zhu 2018. “Fintech credit markets around the world: size, drivers and 
policy issues.” BIS Quarterly Review, https://www.bis.org/publ/qtrpdf/r_qt1809e.htm. 
Cohen L., W. Verbeke, and T. Guns 2021. “Machine learning methods for short-term probability of default: A 
comparison of classification, regression and ranking method.”, Journal of the Operational Research 
Society, https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/01605682.2020.1865847 . 
Costello A., A. Down, and M. Mehta 2020. “Machine + man: A field experiment on the role of discretion in 
augmenting AI-based lending models.” Journal of Accounting and Economics 70 (2-3): 1-30. 
Covitz, D., and Han S. (2004), “An Empirical Analysis of Bond Recovery Rates: Exploring the Structural View of 
Default”, 
Federal 
Reserve 
Board 
Working 
Paper, 
https://www.federalreserve.gov/pubs/feds/2005/200510/200510pap.pdf. 
Crowe D. 2020. “Ethics of FinTech and Trading A Founder’s Perspective” in L.San-Jose, J.L. Retolaza, and L. 
van Liedekerk (eds). International Handbooks in Business Ethics, Cham: Springer. 
Cowton C., and L. San-Jose 2017. “On the ethics of trade credit: understanding good payment practice in the 
supply chain.” Journal of Business Ethics 140 (4): 673-685. 
De Leonardis D., and R. Rocci 2014. “Default Risk Analysis via a Discrete-time Cure Rate Model.” Applied 
Stochastic Models in Business and Industry 30 (5): 529-543. 
Di Maggio M., and V. Yao  2021. “Fintech Borrowers: Lax-Screening or Cream-Skimming?.” Review of Financial 
Studies 34 (10): 4546-4618. 
Dixit N. (2021), “US digital lender originations expected to rebound strongly after painful 2020”, SP Global 
Market 
Intelligence, 
February, 
https://www.spglobal.com/marketintelligence/en/news-
insights/research/us-digital-lender-originations-expected-to-rebound-strongly-after-painful-2020.  
Dorfleitner G., C. Priberny, S. Schuster, J. Stoiber, M. Weber, I. De Castro, and J. Kammler 2016. “Description-
text related soft information in peer-to-peer lending. —Evidence from two leading European 
platforms.” Journal of Banking and Finance, 64 (3): 169–187. 
Dorfleitner G., J. Rad, and M. Weber 2017. “Pricing in the online invoice trading market: First empirical 
evidence.” Economic Letters 161 (1): 56-56. 
Eça A., Ferreira M., Prado M., Rizzo A. (2022), “The real effects of FinTech lending on SMEs: evidence from loan 
applications”, ECB working paper, n.2629, february 
EBA 2021. Risk dashboard.  https://www.eba.europa.eu/risk-analysis-and-data/risk-dashboard. 
Erel I., and J. Liebersohn 2020. “Does fintech substitute for banks? Evidence from the Paycheck Protection 
Program”, NBER working paper n. 27659 https://www.nber.org/papers/w27659. 
Everett C. 2014. “Origins and Development of Credit-Based Crowd funding.” SSRN Electronic Journal 
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2442897. 
Federal Reserve 2019. “2018 Small Business Credit Survey: Report on Employer Firms”, Special Report, 
https://www.fedsmallbusiness.org/survey/2019/report-on-employer-firms. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
601 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Federal 
Reserve 
2021. 
“PPPLF 
Transaction-Specific 
Disclosures.” 
https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/ppplf.htm. 
Financial Stability Board 2019. “Implementation and effects of the g20 financial regulatory reforms: Fifth 
annual report”, https://www.fsb.org/2019/10/implementation- and-effects-of-the-g20-financial-
regulatory-reforms-fifth-annual-report/.  
Fitzgerald M., N. Kruschwitz, D. Bonnet and M. Welch 2013. “Embracing digital technology”, MIT Sloan 
Management Review, Research report https://sloanreview.mit.edu/projects/embracing-digital-
technology/ 
Fons J. 1994. “Using Default Rates to Model the Term Structure of Credit Risk.” Financial Analyst Journal 50 
(5): 25-32. 
Frey C.B., and M.A. Osborne 2013. “The future of employment: how susceptible are jobs to computerisation?” 
https://www.oxfordmartin.ox.ac.uk/downloads/academic/The_Future_of_Employment.pdf 
Frost J., L. Gambacorta, Y. Huang, H. Shin and P. Zbinden 2019. “BigTech and the changing structure of financial 
intermediation.” Economic Policy  34 (100): 761–799. 
Fuster A, M. Plosser, P. Schnabl, and J. Vickery 2019. “The Role of Technology in Mortgage Lending.” Review 
of Financial Studies 32 (5): 1854-1899. 
Gibilaro L. 2019. Trade Credit and Risk Management, New York: Business Expert Press 
Huang Y., Ms. Zhang, Z. Li, H. Qiu,  T. Sun and X. Wang 2020. “Fintech Credit Risk Assessment for SMEs: 
Evidence 
from 
China”, 
IMF 
working 
paper, 
n.193 
https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/WP/Issues/2020/09/25/Fintech-Credit-Risk-Assessment-for-
SMEs-Evidence-from-China-49742  
Gambacorta L., Y. Huang, Z. Li, H. Qiu and S. Chen 2020. “Data vs collateral”, BIS working paper, n.881 
https://www.bis.org/publ/work881.htm  
Giudici P. 2018.  “Fintech risk management: a research challenge for artificial intelligence in finance.” Frontiers 
in Artificial Intelligence, https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/frai.2018.00001/full  
Goldstein Research 2017. Global Machine Learning As A Service Market: Global Opportunity And Demand 
Analysis, Market Segmentation By Services, By Deployment, By Applications, & By Region With 
Forecast 
2017-2030, 
https://www.goldsteinresearch.com/report/global-machine-learning-as-a-
service-market-outlook-2024-global-opportunity-and-demand-analysis-market-forecast-2016-2024  
Laudenbach C, J. Pirschel, and  S. Siegel  2021. “Personal Communication in a Fintech World: Evidence from 
Loan 
Payments”, 
Cesifo 
working 
paper 
n.7295 
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3153192  
Leow M., and J. Crook 2014. “Intensity models and transition probabilities for credit card loan delinquencies.” 
European Journal of Operational Research 236 (2): 685–694. 
Lohmann C., and T. Ohliger 2021. “Using accounting-based and loan-related information to estimate the cure 
probability of a defaulted company.” European Financial Management 27 (4): 620– 640. 
Lopez J.A. 2004. “The empirical relationship between average asset correlation, firm probability of default, and 
asset size.” Journal of Financial Intermediation 13 (2): 265-283. 
Lu Y., M. Squillante, and M. Sharma 2014. “Workforce management: Risk-based financial planning and capacity 
provisioning.” IBM Journal of Research and Development 58 (4): 1-10. 
MarketFinance 
2021. 
“How 
do 
you 
calculate 
the 
weighted 
average 
annualised 
yields.” 
https://learn.marketfinance.com/article/how-do-you-calculate-the-weighted-average-annualised-
yields/  
MarketFinance 2021. “Investors. Performance”. https://marketfinance.com/investors  
Morse A. 2015. “Peer to Peer Crowdfunding: Information and the Potential for Disruption in Consumer 
Lending.” NBER Working Paper n. 20899 https://www.nber.org/papers/w20899 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
602 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Najaf K., C. Schinckus, and L.C. Yoong 2021. “VaR and market value of Fintech companies: an analysis and 
evidence from global data,” Managerial Finance 47 (7) 915-936. 
OECD 2015. New Approaches to SME and Entrepreneurship Financing: Broadening the Range of Instruments, 
Paris: OECD Publishing 
Perko I. 2017. “Behaviour-based short term invoice probability of default evaluation.” European Journal of 
Operational Research 257 (3): 1045-1054. 
Rathi Mena M., and G. Parimalarani 2020. “Impact of digital transformation on employment in the banking 
sector.” International Journal of Scientific and Technology Research 9 (1) 4912-4916. 
Serengil S.I., and A. Ozpinar 2017. “Planning Workforce Management for Bank Operation Centers with Neural 
Networks.” International Journal of Interactive Multimedia and Artificial Intelligence 4 (6) 81-87. 
Serrano-Cinca, C., B. Gutierrez-Nieto, and L. Lopez-Palacios 2015. “Determinants of default in P2P lending” 
PloS One 10 (10) 139-142. 
Stein J. 2002. “Information Production and Capital Allocation: Decentralized vs. Hierarchical Firms.”  Journal of 
Finance 57 (5): 1891-1921 
Stiglitz J., and A. Weiss 1981. “Credit rationing in markets with imperfect information.” American Economic 
Review 71 (3) 393–410. 
UNCTAD/DTL/STICT/INF/2020/2 2020. Covid-19 and e-commerce impact on businesses and policy responses, 
https://unctad.org/system/files/official-document/dtlstictinf2020d2_en.pdf  
U.S. Small Business Administration 2020. Paycheck protection program, Report 08/08/2020, 
https://www.sba.gov/document?program=PPP 
Valleè, B. and Y. Zeng 2019. “Marketplace lending: a new banking paradigm?.” Review of Financial Studies 32, 
(5): 1939–1982. 
Wang H., and E. Overby 2021. “How Does Online Lending Influence Bankruptcy Filings?.” Management 
Science  https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2021.4045 
Wei Z., and M. Lin 2016. “Market mechanisms in online peer-to-peer lending.” Management Science 63 (1): 
3999-4446. 
Zhang B., P. Baeck, T. Ziegler, J. Bone, and K. Garvey 2016. Pushing Boundaries: The 2015 UK Alternative 
Finance 
Industry 
Report, 
Cambridge 
Centre 
for 
Alternative 
Finance, 
https://www.nesta.org.uk/report/pushing-boundaries-the-2015-uk-alternative-finance-industry-
report/  
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
603 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Political Connection of Directors and 
Environment Social Governance 
Report in Sustaining the Business 
Model: The Case of Italy 
 
Thi-Van-Anh VU1,*, Fabio MONTEDURO1 
1Department of Management and Law, University of Rome 
‘TorVergata’ 
*anh.vu@uniroma2.it  
Abstract 
Our paper aims to confirm the role of board political connection in sustaining the business model 
via environment, social and government report in Italy. Using multiple regressions to analyze the 
sample of Italian listed companies, we found that politician director play a positive role in building 
a sustainable business model. 
Keywords  
Business model, Board of directors, Corporate governance, Corporate social responsibility, Political 
connection  
Introduction 
Board of directors play an important role in sustaining and developing a company’s business model 
(Page & Spira, 2016). One way to well perform this task is maintaining key relationship with investor 
and stakeholders by presentation and disclosure. In this paper, we examine the association of 
board of directors’ political capital in sustaining the business model via the disclosure of ESG report 
in Italian context.  
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is widely believed as a strategic management in business, 
which demonstrated as a remarkable part on firm sustainable growth (Carroll, 1999; Frias-Aceituno 
et al., 2013). Nowadays, to quantify CSR, company usually disclosure non-financial reports such as 
integrated report, sustainability report, the Universal Standards - Global Report Initiative (GRI) or 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
604 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the Environmental, Social, and Corporate Governance standard (ESG) etc., among which, the ESG 
standard has been becoming a key indicator in evaluating the non-financial performance and also 
a mean to integrate the ethics into core business model. 
Directors with political background or connection is known as influencers or key oppinion leaders 
in society (Ramón-Llorens et al., 2019). The resource dependence theory suggests that directors, 
with their human and social capital, could contribute valuable advices for firms’ strategies and 
operation through lens of politician; increase firm credibility by their reputation and legitimacy. 
They also help firms reach “VIP” via their networks to realize the business purposes such as financial 
support, access to resources or relevant information (Ramón-Llorens et al., 2019). Moreover, 
politicians understand very well government expectation about social contribution from firm so 
that they will promote CSR activities to help firm gain the priority and benefit (Fernández-Gago et 
al., 2018). By promoting CSR, political connected directors directly contribute to sustaining the 
business model. 
 
Our paper uses multiple regression analysis to explain the association between the environment 
social government report and board political connection in Italy. We found that Italian firms with 
politicians on board have higher level quality of ESG report than the counterparts. This output 
confirms the positive and crucial role of directors in building and sustaining the business model of 
firm by encouraging ESG report. 
Literature review and hypothesis development  
ESG report is said to be a mean to integrate the ethics into core business model (Maniora, 2017). 
Young and Reeves (2020) demonstrate that ESG reports are useful to reimaging business model for 
sustainability and reshape the business ecosystem by encourage the social responsibility of firm. 
By the environmental and societal information showed in ESG reports, we can evaluate how 
company sustain the business model. 
In recent literature stream, ESG reports is affected by many factors. One of the most influential 
factors is board of director (Olthuis & van den Oever, 2020; Ramón-Llorens et al., 2019; Muttakin 
et al., 2018). Fernández-Gago et al. (2018) analyze listed firms in Spanish suggest that independent 
directors with political backgrounds have positive impact on disclosing CSR report base on GRI 
guidelines. In the same vein, Bianchi et al. (2019) utilizes the legitimacy approach to indicate that 
managers of a company with political background/ connection tend to support to disclose higher 
level of CSR information than non-connected managers.  
The review of literature presented above shows plenty of evidences about the association of 
political connected board and ESG reports and the positive significant role of this report in 
sustaining the business model. Our paper, therefore, develop the hypothesis that political 
connected directors have positive and significant role towards the sustainable business model by 
encouraging the disclosure of ESG reports. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
605 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Methodology 
Sample and data: 
We identify the sample by comprising Italian listed firms from 2010 to 2019. Our sample is drawn 
from several sources including Bloomberg database, Commissione Nazionale per le Societa e la 
Borsa (CONSOB), company websites, Italian Chamber of Deputies and Italian Department of Affairs 
Internal and Territorial.  
Dependent variable:  
Corporate social responsibility of Italian firms is represented by ESG disclosure score, provided by 
Bloomberg database. ESG disclosure score is based on three extents of company report including 
environment, social and governance disclosures. Companies that do not disclose anything will show 
NA in the data panel. The score ranges from 0.1 in minimum to 100 points in maximum, is tailored 
by industry or sector, and weighted in terms of its importance (Giannarakis et al., 2014).  
Main Independent variables: 
In the scope of our paper, we only take into consideration the official political connection and 
exclude the informal ones, for instance, family or social relationship (Hillman, 2005).  
Control variables: following prior literature, we include several sets of controls. Data for those 
control variables were taken from Bloomberg data base during the period of 2010-2019. 
Board characteristics variables 
Board gender is represented by the percentage of women directors on board (Setó-Pamies, 2015; 
McGuinness et al., 2017; Cucari et al., 2018).  
Board independent is calculated by the percentage of independent board members as reported by 
the company.  
Board size is measured by the total number of board members at the end of the fiscal year.  
In addition, we consider other two characteristics of board: CSR committee as a dummy variable, 
equal to 1 if the company has CSR committee and 0 otherwise (Eberhardt-Toth, 2017; Biswas et al. 
2018; Salvioni & Gennari, 2020); CEO duality which is assigned the value of 1 if the CEO of the 
company is also the chair, otherwise it is 0 (Haniffa & Cooke, 2002; J. Li et al., 2008; Prado-Lorenzo 
& Garcia-Sanchez, 2010; Amran et al., 2014). 
Firm performance variables 
We include firm size, which is proxy by the logarithm of lag of total assets (Martínez‐Ferrero et al., 
2015; Ramón-Llorens et al., 2019) due to the fact that small and large firms are different in terms 
of visibility, resource access and operating scale (Udayasankar, 2008) which may lead to dissimilar 
in CSR approach. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
606 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Financial performance or profitability is computed based on the lag of return on assets (ROA) (J. 
Zhang et al., 2016; Ortiz-de-Mandojana et al., 2016).  
Firm leverage (LEV) - total debt over assets is an important control variable (Michelon & Parbonetti, 
2012; Katmon et al., 2019). We control for firm LEV by lag of total debt over assets in our model. 
Econometric approach 
We applied the random effects (RE) and fixed effects (FE) models to analyze the panel data of Italian 
listed firms. An important assumption in selecting between RE and FE models is whether 
unobserved effects (firm fixed effects) and independent variables are correlated. In fact, our 
dependent variable, ESG disclosure, encourage Italian firms to disclose, which can lead to sample 
selection bias. If we apply RE or FE models for estimating ESG disclosure directly, can be 
inappropriate. We hence performed the two-step Heckman model to rule out the potential sample 
selection bias (Heckman, 1979). In the first step, we used a probit model to determine the likelihood 
of an Italian firm disclosing ESG based on political connections, industries and control variables. We 
predicted the inverse Mills’ ratio the first stage, then plugging it into the second stage to control 
for sample selection bias (Certo et al., 2016; Wooldridge, 2010). We used RE and FE models in the 
second step to control for both unobserved effects and sample selection bias. We performed 
Hausman (1978)’s test to decide results from RE or FE estimation should be selected. 
Regression results 
Table 1 Descriptive statistics of variables 
 
 
VIF 
mean 
sd 
min 
max 
ESG disclosure 
 
40.70 
17.74 
3.51 
76.75 
PoliconD 
1.18 
0.19 
0.40 
0.00 
1.00 
PoliconPer 
 
2.24 
5.23 
0.00 
40.00 
Board size 
1.68 
12.36 
3.71 
5.00 
26.00 
Board independent 
1.55 
53.08 
16.82 
0.00 
100.00 
CSR committee 
1.52 
0.25 
0.43 
0.00 
1.00 
Board gender 
2.87 
22.15 
13.84 
0.00 
55.56 
CEO duality 
1.32 
0.15 
0.35 
0.00 
1.00 
Firm size 
3.14 
8.96 
1.86 
5.14 
13.74 
Financial 
performance 
1.54 
2.68 
9.60 
-51.01 
199.33 
Firm leverage 
1.49 
28.75 
16.93 
0.00 
183.29 
Note: N = 704  
 
Table 1 presents the descriptive statistics of main variables used in our models. The results show 
that the ESG score of Italian firms, on average, is 40.70 in our sample. Having political connections 
on BODs in Italian firms is around 19 percent. Table 1 also reports the variance inflation factors 
(VIF) to check the multicollinearity. All VIF values are less than 5, our model thus has no problem 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
607 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
with multicollinearity. Table 2 presents the correlation coefficients of the main variables. The 
correlation coefficients of political variables are positive as our expectation. 
Models 1 and 5, and 2 and 6 in Table 3 show the baseline results from estimating the RE, and FE 
models, respectively. Models 3, 4, 7 and 8 present the results of the second-stage Heckman 
selection model. Models 1 – 4 in Table 3 present the results of political connections that was 
dummy variable, PoliconD, while models 5 – 8 present the results of political connections that was 
the percentage of all directors on board who had current or former politicians, PoliconPer. The 
estimated coefficients of inverse Mills’ Ratio are statistical significance in all the second-stage 
Heckman selection models (Models 3, 4, 7 and 8) that indicates the present of sample selection 
bias. Moreover, the second-stage regressions estimated by using RE and FE models to control for 
unobserved effects. Hausman tests are statistical significance (chi2(16) = 29.64, p-value < 0.05 and 
chi2(16) = 35.16, p-value < 0.01) showing that the preferred models are FE and we thus use the 
results of models 4 and 8 to interpret. 
The results from both model 4 and model 8 show that firms whose directors have had political 
connections (β = 4.789, p-value < 0.01 for PoliconD variable and β = 0.356, p-value < 0.01 for 
PoliconPer variable) have positive impacts on EGS disclosure of Italian listed firms.  
As for other board characteristics, we find that the percentage of independent direction on board 
is positively associated with ESG disclosure (β = 0.126, p-value < 0.01 for both model 4 and model 
8) while board size, having CSR committee, board gender and CEO duality have no impact on ESG 
disclosure. In terms of the firm performance variables, we find evidence that firm size and financial 
performance influence on ESG disclosure. Finally, we find no evidence of the relationship firm 
leverage and ESG disclosure.

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
608 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 2 Correlation matrix  
 
 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
1.ESG disclosure 
1.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.PoliconD 
0.10* 
1.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.policonPer 
0.06 
0.88*** 
1.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.Board size 
0.09* 
0.07 
0.00 
1.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.Board independent 
0.34*** 
0.08* 
0.14*** 
0.09* 
1.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.CSR committee 
0.42*** 
0.08* 
0.03 
0.04 
0.20*** 
1.00 
 
 
 
 
 
7.Board gender 
0.29*** 
-0.09* 
-0.12** 
-0.11** 
0.19*** 
0.36*** 
1.00 
 
 
 
 
8.CEO duality 
-0.17*** 
-0.04 
0.03 
-0.17*** 
-0.19*** 
-0.17*** 
-0.13*** 
1.00 
 
 
 
9.Firm size 
0.41*** 
0.16*** 
0.10** 
0.45*** 
0.36*** 
0.26*** 
0.09* 
-0.31*** 
1.00 
 
 
10.Financial performance 
-0.09* 
-0.04 
-0.03 
-0.10** 
-0.01 
-0.02 
0.06 
0.14*** 
-0.19*** 
1.00 
 
11.Firm leverage 
0.12** 
0.07 
0.07 
0.05 
0.17*** 
0.03 
-0.03 
-0.10** 
0.14*** 
-0.25*** 
1.00 
* p < 0.05, ** p < 0.01, *** p < 0.001 
 
 
Table 3 Regression results of political connections on ESG disclosure score 
 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
(8) 
 
RE 
FE 
RE-
Heckman 
FE-Heckman 
RE 
FE 
RE-
Heckman 
FE-Heckman 
PoliconD 
3.623*** 
4.442*** 
3.592*** 
4.789*** 
 
 
 
 
 
(1.373) 
(1.437) 
(1.370) 
(1.435) 
 
 
 
 
PoliconPer 
 
 
 
 
0.236* 
0.333** 
0.231* 
0.356*** 
 
 
 
 
 
(0.122) 
(0.132) 
(0.122) 
(0.130) 
Board size 
0.268 
0.055 
0.399 
0.226 
0.278 
0.069 
0.410* 
0.232 
 
(0.240) 
(0.273) 
(0.247) 
(0.280) 
(0.241) 
(0.274) 
(0.247) 
(0.281) 
Board independent 
0.124*** 
0.139*** 
0.111*** 
0.126*** 
0.123*** 
0.139*** 
0.111*** 
0.126*** 
 
(0.039) 
(0.041) 
(0.039) 
(0.041) 
(0.039) 
(0.042) 
(0.039) 
(0.042) 
CSR committee 
1.104 
0.532 
1.257 
0.874 
1.201 
0.657 
1.355 
0.992 
 
(1.275) 
(1.317) 
(1.274) 
(1.316) 
(1.279) 
(1.321) 
(1.278) 
(1.322) 
Board gender 
-0.036 
-0.047 
-0.039 
-0.051 
-0.038 
-0.051 
-0.041 
-0.056 
 
(0.051) 
(0.052) 
(0.051) 
(0.051) 
(0.051) 
(0.052) 
(0.051) 
(0.052) 
CEO duality 
0.863 
2.518 
0.184 
1.755 
0.851 
2.659 
0.165 
1.943 
 
(1.958) 
(2.196) 
(1.975) 
(2.204) 
(1.964) 
(2.206) 
(1.981) 
(2.215) 
Firm size 
6.219*** 
10.534*** 
8.339*** 
16.818*** 
6.283*** 
10.569*** 
8.394*** 
16.549*** 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
609 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
(0.923) 
(2.003) 
(1.398) 
(3.197) 
(0.924) 
(2.010) 
(1.398) 
(3.208) 
Financial performance 
0.007 
-0.009 
0.159 
0.278* 
0.011 
-0.006 
0.162 
0.267* 
 
(0.108) 
(0.113) 
(0.131) 
(0.160) 
(0.109) 
(0.113) 
(0.132) 
(0.161) 
Firm leverage 
-0.003 
-0.018 
-0.033 
-0.108 
-0.008 
-0.026 
-0.038 
-0.112 
 
(0.064) 
(0.077) 
(0.065) 
(0.085) 
(0.064) 
(0.077) 
(0.065) 
(0.085) 
Mills’ ratio 
 
 
7.381** 
14.223** 
 
 
7.369** 
13.531** 
 
 
 
(3.632) 
(5.662) 
 
 
(3.637) 
(5.676) 
_cons 
-32.965*** 
-67.892*** 
-55.435*** 
-129.836*** 
-32.418*** 
-67.821*** 
-54.821*** 
-126.740*** 
 
(9.748) 
(18.130) 
(14.723) 
(30.544) 
(9.760) 
(18.196) 
(14.731) 
(30.632) 
Hausman test 
 
 
 
29.64** 
 
 
 
35.16*** 
Industry fixed 
YES 
NO 
YES 
NO 
YES 
NO 
YES 
NO 
Year fixed 
YES 
YES 
YES 
YES 
YES 
YES 
YES 
YES 
N 
526 
526 
526 
526 
526 
526 
526 
526 
R2 
0.502 
0.508 
0.504 
0.515 
0.499 
0.505 
0.500 
0.511 
Standard errors in parentheses 
* p < 0.10, ** p < 0.05, *** p < 0.

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
610 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Discussion of the results and conclusions 
The important of corporate governance, specifically role of directors to the company’s business 
model has been acknowledged. However, less is done about directors’ political resources and 
business model. In this study, we use multiple regressions to investigate if having politicians on 
board could affect the sustainable business model via ESG report in Italy listed companies. The 
result shows that Italian listed companies with political connections on board present higher level 
of ESG report than their counterparts. This finding supports our hypothesis that directors play an 
active role in building an effective and sustainable business model via the ESG reports.  
In Italy, politics has much effect on business that it may influence the way company build business 
model (Romolini et al., 2014). The issue of bureaucracy and corruption is the reason companies 
wish to have relationship with politicians via their executives to meddle in policy decisions and gain 
private benefit (Romolini et al., 2014). Italian firms with political connection are said to run their 
business easier and have greater market power than the ones without (Bellavite Pellegrini & 
Pellegrini, 2013). Politician directors who understand government expectation about social 
contribution from firm will promote CSR activities to help firm gain the priority and benefit 
(Fernández-Gago et al., 2018). Such that, they contribute also to sustaining the business model. 
Our study is useful to corporate governance, CSR and politics in Italy. In line with the resource 
dependence theory, we affirm the role of director political capital to corporate governance. Italian 
politician directors who are responsible for overseeing management control system (Merchant & 
Van der Stede, 2007) will promote the disclosure of non-financial report (e.g. ESG report) and by 
that to contribute to sustaining the business model of company.  
References 
Amran, A., Periasamy, V., & Zulkafli, A. H. (2014). Determinants of climate change disclosure by developed 
and emerging countries in asia pacific. Sustainable Development, 22(3), 188–204. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/sd.539 
Bellavite Pellegrini, C., & Pellegrini, L. (2013). Politically Connected Firms in Italy: Do Political 
Connections Matter? SSRN Electronic Journal, September 2012. 
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2207994 
Bianchi, M. T., Monteiro, P., Azevedo, G., Oliveira, J., Viana, R. C., & Branco, M. C. (2019). Political 
connections and corporate social responsibility reporting in Portugal. Journal of Financial Crime, 
26(4), 1203–1215. https://doi.org/10.1108/JFC-10-2018-0111 
Biswas, P. K., Mansi, M., & Pandey, R. (2018). Board composition, sustainability committee and corporate 
social and environmental performance in Australia. Pacific Accounting Review, 30(4), 517–540. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/PAR-12-2017-0107 
Carroll, A. B. (1999). Corporate social responsibility: Evolution of a definitional construct. Business & 
Society, 38(3), 268–295. 
Certo, S. T., Busenbark, J. R., Woo, H., & Semadeni, M. (2016). Sample selection bias and Heckman models 
in strategic management research. Strategic Management Journal, 37(13), 2639–2657. 
Cucari, N., Esposito De Falco, S., & Orlando, B. (2018). Diversity of Board of Directors and Environmental 
Social Governance: Evidence from Italian Listed Companies. Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Environmental Management, 25(3), 250–266. https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1452 
Eberhardt-Toth, E. (2017). Who should be on a board corporate social responsibility committee? Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 140, 1926–1935. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.08.127 
Fernández-Gago, R., Cabeza-García, L., & Nieto, M. (2018). Independent directors’ background and CSR 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
611 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
disclosure. Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 25(5), 991–1001. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1515 
Frias-Aceituno, J. V., Rodriguez-Ariza, L., & Garcia-Sanchez, I. M. (2013). The role of the board in the 
dissemination of integrated corporate social reporting. Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Environmental Management, 20(4), 219–233. https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1294 
Giannarakis, G., Konteos, G., & Sariannidis, N. (2014). Financial, governance and environmental 
determinants of corporate social responsible disclosure. Management Decision, 52(10), 1928–1951. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/MD-05-2014-0296 
Haniffa, R. M., & Cooke, T. E. (2002). Culture, corporate governance and disclosure in Malaysian 
corporations. Abacus. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-6281.00112 
Hausman, J. A. (1978). Specification tests in econometrics. Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric 
Society, 1251–1271. 
Heckman, J. J. (1979). Sample selection bias as a specification error. Econometrica: Journal of the 
Econometric Society, 153–161. 
Hillman, A. J. (2005). Politicians on the board of directors: Do connections affect the bottom line? Journal of 
Management, 31(3), 464–481. 
Katmon, N., Mohamad, Z. Z., Norwani, N. M., & Farooque, O. Al. (2019). Comprehensive Board Diversity 
and Quality of Corporate Social Responsibility Disclosure: Evidence from an Emerging Market. 
Journal of Business Ethics, 157(2), 447–481. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-017-3672-6 
Li, J., Pike, R., & Haniffa, R. (2008). Intellectual capital disclosure and corporate governance structure in UK 
firms. Accounting and Business Research. https://doi.org/10.1080/00014788.2008.9663326 
Maniora, J. (2017). Is integrated reporting really the superior mechanism for the integration of ethics into the 
core business model? An empirical analysis. Journal of Business Ethics, 140(4), 755–786. 
Martínez‐Ferrero, J., Garcia‐Sanchez, I. M., & Cuadrado‐Ballesteros, B. (2015). Effect of financial reporting 
quality on sustainability information disclosure. Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental 
Management, 22(1), 45–64. 
McGuinness, P. B., Vieito, J. P., & Wang, M. (2017). The role of board gender and foreign ownership in the 
CSR performance of Chinese listed firms. Journal of Corporate Finance, 42, 75–99. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcorpfin.2016.11.001 
Merchant, K. A., & Van der Stede, W. A. (2007). Management control systems: performance measurement, 
evaluation and incentives. Pearson education. 
Michelon, G., & Parbonetti, A. (2012). The effect of corporate governance on sustainability disclosure. 
Journal of Management & Governance, 16(3), 477–509. 
Muttakin, M. B., Mihret, D. G., & Khan, A. (2018). Corporate political connection and corporate social 
responsibility disclosures: A neo-pluralist hypothesis and empirical evidence. Accounting, Auditing 
and Accountability Journal, 31(2), 725–744. https://doi.org/10.1108/AAAJ-06-2015-2078 
Nasih, M., Harymawan, I., Putra, F. K. G., & Qotrunnada, R. (2019). Military experienced board and 
corporate social responsibility disclosure: an empirical evidence from Indonesia. Entrepreneurship 
and Sustainability Issues, 7(1), 553–573. 
Olthuis, B. R., & van den Oever, K. F. (2020). The board of directors and CSR: How does ideological 
diversity on the board impact CSR? Journal of Cleaner Production, 251, 119532. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.119532 
Ortiz-de-Mandojana, N., Aguilera-Caracuel, J., & Morales-Raya, M. (2016). Corporate Governance and 
Environmental Sustainability: The Moderating Role of the National Institutional Context. Corporate 
Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 23(3), 150–164. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1367 
Page, M., & Spira, L. F. (2016). Corporate governance as custodianship of the business model. Journal of 
Management & Governance, 20(2), 213–228. 
Prado-Lorenzo, J. M., & Garcia-Sanchez, I. M. (2010). The Role of the Board of Directors in Disseminating 
Relevant Information on Greenhouse Gases. Journal of Business Ethics, 97(3), 391–424. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-010-0515-0 
Ramón-Llorens, M. C., García-Meca, E., & Pucheta-Martínez, M. C. (2019). The role of human and social 
board capital in driving CSR reporting. Long Range Planning, 52(6), 1–17. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
612 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2018.08.001 
Romolini, A., Fissi, S., & Gori, E. (2014). Scoring CSR reporting in listed companies - evidence from Italian 
best practices. Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 21(2), 65–81. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1299 
Salvioni, D., & Gennari, F. (2020). Stakeholder Perspective of Corporate Governance and CSR Committees. 
Symphonya. Emerging Issues in Management, 1, 28. 
https://doi.org/10.4468/2019.1.03salvioni.gennari 
Setó-Pamies, D. (2015). The Relationship between Women Directors and Corporate Social Responsibility. 
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 22(6), 334–345. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1349 
Udayasankar, K. (2008). Corporate social responsibility and firm size. Journal of Business Ethics, 83(2), 
167–175. 
Wooldridge, J. M. (2010). Econometric analysis of cross section and panel data. MIT press. 
Young, D., & Reeves, M. (2020). The quest for sustainable business model innovation. Boston Consulting 
Group-Henderson Institute. 
Zhang, J., Marquis, C., & Qiao, K. (2016). Do political connections buffer firms from or bind firms to the 
government? A study of corporate charitable donations of Chinese firms. Organization Science, 
27(5), 1307–1324. https://doi.org/10.1287/orsc.2016.1084 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
613 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Does ESG Impact Really Enhance 
Portfolio Profitability? 
 
Francesco Cesarone1, Manuel Luis Martino1,*, Alessandra Carleo1 
1Roma Tre University – Department of Business Studies  
*manuelluis.martino@uniroma3.it  
Abstract 
Over the last few decades, a growing attention to the Social Responsibility topic has affected 
financial markets and institutional authorities. Indeed, recent environmental, social and financial 
crises have inevitably led regulators and investors to take into account the sustainable investing 
issue. However, the question of how Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria impact 
financial portfolio performances is still open. In this work, we examine a multi-objective 
optimization model for portfolio selection, where we add to the classical Mean-Variance analysis a 
third non-financial goal represented by the ESG scores. The resulting optimization problem, 
formulated as a convex Quadratic Programming, consists in minimizing the portfolio variance with 
parametric lower bounds on the levels of the portfolio expected return and ESG. We provide here 
an extensive empirical analysis on five datasets involving real-world capital market indexes from 
major stock markets. Our empirical findings typically reveal the presence of two behavioral patterns 
for the 16 Mean-Variance-ESG portfolios analyzed. Indeed, over the last fifteen years we can 
distinguish two non-overlapping time windows on which the inclusion of portfolio ESG targets leads 
to different regimes in terms of portfolio profitability. Furthermore, on the most recent time 
window, we observe that, for the US markets, imposing a high ESG target tends to select portfolios 
that show better financial performances than other strategies, whereas for the European markets 
the ESG constraint does not seem to improve the portfolio profitability. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
614 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 2.5 - Sustainable Business models: 
Create and Capture Value through Frugal 
Innovation 
Track Chairs: Alessia Pisoni (Insubria University), 
Francesca Ciulli (Tilburg University), Laura Michelini 
(LUMSA University), Hareem Arshad (University of 
Stuttgart) 
 
Frugal innovation (FI) is increasingly attracting the interest of scholars for its potential to 
serve customers living in resource-constrained environment, but could also be applied in 
the advanced economies by significantly reducing the use of resources.  
The track aims to explore the link between FI and sustainable business model and how to 
create and capture value through FI especially in the digital and technology field. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
615 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Design-thinking & Frugality;  
A workshop routine to capture the 
value of innovations for SMEs  
 
Albert Kraaij*, Ankie Swakhoven, Kim Poldner 
The Hague University of Applied Sciences 
*a.kraaij@hhs.nl 
Abstract 
This full paper works towards merging ‘frugality’ and ‘design thinking’ into a simplified framework 
for a workshop routine as a stepping stone for SMEs in developed countries to create and capture 
value of frugal innovations. Innovations which are born out of the notion that we can do more 
with less, or for less. This framework is aimed at reaching a specific group of SMEs, in this paper 
called the peloton of SMEs, a large group of SMEs which generally have lower growth ambitions 
and growth potential in comparison to the frontrunners. This group is often overlooked by 
(regional) governmental innovation programmes due to a primary focus on the same industry’s 
frontrunners.  
The framework was first tested with students, discussed with experts and eventually tested with 
SMEs from the Agribusiness sector in the Netherlands. Frugal Elements added to the design thinking 
process are; (a.) a Frugal Lens (b.) Frugal Business Model Patterns for BMI (c.) Frugal leadership 
development (d.) Frugal Validation of the solution (e.) Frugal Intervention (limited time, limited 
theory, vertical learning community, practical tools). 
Although the first Pilot has been a succes in terms of helping participating SMEs to create 
innovations, more research is necessary for the design of a final framework which is expected to 
contribute to the frameworks that are currently available to SMEs in frugal and sustainable business 
modelling. 
Keywords 
Frugal Innovation, Design Thinking, Busines Model Innovation, SMEs 
Introduction 
Frugal innovations for recovery 
This decade began with the arrival of a pandemic that has had a damaging effect on people and 
organizations, both in economic and social terms. According to Schumpeterian theories 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
616 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
(Schumpeter, 1942; Korringa et al., 2016), sustainable economic growth can be aided by the 
introduction of successful new products, services and processes. It is the innovative entrepreneur 
who is the prime mover in this process (Spulber, 2014). In parallel to the pandemic there is maybe 
an even bigger crisis evolving; a sustainability crisis that also needs to be tackled. Increasing 
sustainability pressures warrant a better understanding of the impact of companies’ BMI through 
a more comprehensive analysis of innovation and its consequences (Snihur & Bocken, 2022). 
Although organizations with environmentally friendly resources and capabilities have an advantage 
over their competitors(Iqbal & Ahmad, 2021), for SMEs creating sustainable value it is not the first 
priority. Continuation and survival, especially in times of crises, are key (Pisoni et al., 2018). In this 
paper, we examine the concept of frugality to assist SMEs in the creation of new products, services, 
processes and subsequently new business models (BMs) for creating the necessary financial value 
for recovery but also allowing for continued progress towards sustainability.  
Purpose of the research  
This research aims to contribute to the few tools or frameworks that are currently available to SMEs 
in sustainable business modelling (Geissdoerfer et al., 2016). Innovation in the development of 
sustainable business models has become a hot topic but is affected by a high failure rate due to a 
lack of reliable and efficient methods (He & Ortiz, 2021). According to Bocken, research indicates 
that tools or frameworks that fit needs and expectations are scarce or may be too complex and 
demanding in terms of time commitment (Bocken et al, 2019). Simplicity, as opposed to complex 
and demanding, is core to frugality. As frugal innovations have shown great success in driving 
inclusive growth by overcoming challenges like poverty and inequality, it is also expected to have 
high potential in advanced or developed countries driving sustainable growth of businesses without 
damaging the planet (Agarwal & Brem, 2017). 
The purpose of this research is to explore whether the concept of frugality can be a transformed 
into a simple, easy to apply framework, in this case a workshop routine. A workshop routine is a set 
of consecutive workshops with a specific configuration, which has the potential to support SMEs in 
developed countries in creating and capturing value of frugal innovations, and possibly drive 
sustainable outcomes. This workshop routine should assist SMEs in finding new solutions or 
innovations. 
 
Literature; reconciling concepts 
This section highlights the theoretical background by drawing on two concepts: frugality and design 
thinking. This is followed by an explanation of the research gap and the resulting need for the 
presented study. 
Frugality 
According to the dictionary, the word “frugal” means “economical in use, or spending”, “requiring 
little expense or few resources” or “living without waste”. The notion of ‘frugal innovation (FI)’ was 
first introduced in the context of emerging markets, giving non-affluent customers opportunities to 
consume affordable products and services suited to their needs (Weyrauch & Herstatt, 2017). The 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
617 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
value provided with FI started as inherently social because the goal was to give the poor access to 
products and services to empower them. However, the discourse on FI has been extended towards 
developed countries focusing on using less resources (Tiwari & Bergmann, 2018). The challenge for 
frugal innovation is to introduce something new whilst saving resources (Pisoni et al., 2018). That 
new solution can be a product, service, process, or even a new business model (Hossain, 2018).  
Frugal innovation can be considered as an outcome but also as a process or a mindset (Pisoni et al., 
2018). Frugality, or working with a frugal mindset could therefore mean using resources to their full 
potential. This paper applies this mindset in developing a framework for a workshop routine that 
opens up a path in creating new products, services, processes and subsequently new Business 
Models (BMs) that provide significant value while minimizing the use of resources such as energy, 
capital and time (Hossain, 2018; Radjou & Prabhu, 2015). Frugal innovation presents a promising 
way to tackle some of today’s pressing societal problems with new business models (Hossain, 2021). 
Although Frugal innovations do not all have an inherent sustainability impact (Rosca, 2017). The 
notion of frugality could also provide a new perspective on how to deal with the traditional trade-
off between people and planet that is apparent in the body of literature on developing sustainable 
BMs (Arnold, 2018). Using this lens, we hope to show that frugality provides a promising perspective 
to make the transition to more sustainable BMs. In short, frugality could be explained as ‘doing 
more with less’ (Radjou & Prabhu, 2015).  
In this paper, we will apply this mindset in developing BMs. Sustainable BMs require intentional 
design if they are to deliver aspired sustainability impacts (Bocken et al., 2019). One reason for 
Business Model Innovation (BMI) failure is a lack of supporting frameworks and tools (Weking et 
al., 2018), this is where Business Model Patterns (BMPs) come into play. BMPs could be used as an 
effective tool to capture and organise the knowledge about the creation of sustainable BMs and to 
creatively develop or adapt BMs by recombining existing patterns (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018). It 
is about making solutions that have been successful in the past in different industries or contexts, 
accessible to others (Amshoff et al., 2015). Recently, nine specific Frugal Business Model Patterns 
have been identified (Kraaij & Limonard 2021). These Patterns describe ways to create economic, 
social and ecological value by applying a frugal mindset. An example of a Frugal Pattern is to 
‘Diminish resources’ (or Simplify), meaning stripping the product or service to the core by removing 
or reducing features, resources, required activities and/or waste streams. 
Design Thinking 
As stated by Brown (2008), design thinking is a means to provide innovative solutions for complex 
problems for organizations. At its core, design thinking is a human-centred approach for innovation 
by co-creation, inspired by the way designers tend to think and act (Klenner et al., 2021; Brown, 
2008). It is a method for generating (innovative) solutions for wicked problems by deliberately 
incorporating the concerns, interests and values of humans into the design process (Brown, 2009; 
Meinel & Leifer, 2011).  
Design thinking has moved beyond its original implementation in new product development and 
has been successfully applied in an ever-wider spectrum of areas, such as sustainable BMI 
(Geissdoerfer et al,. 2016). The design thinking process is deliberately iterative and aims to rapidly 
develop and test multiple, possible solutions to arrive at an optimal one (Geissdoerfer et al., 2016; 
Brown, 2008). To make this process more accessible and explicit, easily understandable and 
applicable in businesses, the British Design Council developed a graphical based diagram, describing 
the divergent and convergent stages of the design process (Designcouncil, 2018). This Double 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
618 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Diamond design process model consists of four quarters; ‘Gaining insights, discover, be curious’, 
‘Define the core challenge (= problem definition)’, ‘Potential solutions’, ‘Solutions that work & 
receive feedback’ and is the base of the proposed preliminary framework for a workshop routine. 
 
 
Figure 2 Design Thinking Process - Double Diamond (Designcouncil, 2018). 
The first quarter of the Double Diamond represents the initial divergent part of the project in which 
the designer is searching for brand new opportunities, trends, markets, information and insights. 
The second quarter, which ends the first Diamond, marks the Definition stage, a filter where the 
first insights are reviewed, selected and discarded.  
The third quarter of the Double Diamond signifies the period of Development. It covers the initial 
development of project ideas, in which the designer must engage with the wider context of the 
identified opportunity. We find ourselves again in a period of divergency. Solutions are developed, 
iterated and tested under the use of dedicated tools such as brainstorming, prototypes and 
experimentation combined with financial validation. In the last, fourth quarter of the Double 
Diamond, the final concept is taken through final testing, production and launch (Designcouncil, 
2018).  
The need for merging Frugality & Design Thinking for SMEs 
In a recent literature review by Pisoni et al (2018), the foundations on frugal innovation were laid 
for subsequent works, by identifying gaps in the current knowledge and by recommending new 
directions for future research. We aim to address the gap of a frugal approach to innovation in SMEs 
in developed countries. 
Design thinking, with its broad and generic applicability, has proven to provide an effective way for 
organizations to create (product, service, process, and business modelling innovation (Hossain, 
2018) solutions for problems. At the same time, design thinking could also be resource-intensive, 
requiring special workspaces and consuming a considerable amount of time (Bocken et al., 2019). 
Resources are scarce for SMEs and startups. Such enterprises often start with the means at their 
disposal, and not by considering those they could acquire in the future (Ghorberl et al., 2021). 
 Frugality, or working with a frugal mindset, is proven successful in using limited resources to their 
full potential. It helps enterprises to do more with less, or for less. Frugal innovations are by 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
619 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
definition non-complex and are created by entrepreneurs who do not aim at a high (financial) 
growth potential.  
Is a clever combination of Design Thinking and Frugality beneficial? Can we make design thinking 
more accessible and valuable by means of adding frugality? Design Thinking is a proven concept 
and a good base for the creation of innovations. By first identifying and then adding specific frugal 
elements to the design thinking process, means and resources can be reduced, synthesizing the 
best of both worlds. By merging ‘design thinking’ and ‘frugality’ into a workshop routine, a specific 
group of SMEs can be challenged to capture and create value. Therefore, the main research 
question that this study addresses is: “How can frugal elements enhance the design thinking 
process, to support SMEs in creating, commercializing, diffusing frugal products, services and/or 
processes?”  
 
Method 
Framework for a Design Thinking workshop routine with Frugal 
Elements 
To address the research question, we have developed a framework to find solutions for SMEs by 
adding frugality to the design thinking process. This method section explains the step-by-step 
development procedure for creating such a framework. Figure 2 provides an overview of the 
research methods used in this study, which is structured in four phases: (1) Discovery, (2) 
Conceptualization, (3) Effectiveness & Improvement and (4) Continuous improvement. An 
introduction of the implemented approaches for each phase is followed by an explanation of the 
respective methods and a description of the result(s) per phase. 
  
 
 
Figure 3 Overview of Phases, Research methods and Result(s) 
Phase 1; Discovery 
The first phase was about discovering the idea’s origin and necessity for creating such a framework 
for a workshop routine. The main research method employed in this phase was semi-structured 
interviews with three experts on Frugal Innovation, Design Thinking and Innovation Management. 
Additionally, literature studies on the relevant concepts were reviewed. The interview with the 
academic researcher on Frugal Innovation, focussed on the idea’s origin and stakeholders. This 
interviewee also has expertise on Design Thinking. The second expert, also an academic researcher, 
has a PhD in Innovation Management and is an experienced trainer. The third expert has developed 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
620 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
considerable knowledge on Design Thinking as an SME management consultant and trainer. During 
all these interviews, special focus was given on the specific needs of the target group, the SMEs. 
The literature review started by screening journal articles on Frugal Innovation and Design Thinking. 
These literature sources were identified in the Web of Science database by using the search terms 
‘frugal innovation’, ‘literature review’ and ‘design thinking’.  
Results from expert interviews and literature reviews yielded a research question, relevant 
assumptions and first ideas about configuration of the workshop routine. 
Phase 2; Conceptualization 
Phase 2 focused on designing the first framework for the workshop routine to use in subsequent 
testing during the next phase. The conceptualization was based on two different methods: a round 
of iterative expert interviews and experimentation of frugal elements within student projects.  
Firstly, a round of iterative expert interviews was conducted to conceptualize a workshop routine 
based on the framework drafted in the preceding exploration phase. The same experts, as 
mentioned in the previous phase, were interviewed, and asked to provide input on the different 
building blocks necessary to create the First Test Pilot configuration of the workshop routine. Again, 
specific attention was given to the needs of the target groups, the SMEs. Possibilities of Design 
Thinking were discussed, and how frugal elements could be added to the Design Thinking process. 
Secondly, frugal elements were conceptualized and tested in an educational environment. Each 
year the Institute International Centre for Frugal Innovation organizes a unique, educational 
program for third year bachelor students from Leiden University, TU Delft and Erasmus University 
Rotterdam - the minor Frugal Innovation for Sustainable Global Development (ICFI, 2022). In this 
program, participating students have the opportunity to work with students from other universities 
and disciplines, allowing them to step outside of their monodisciplinary frame of reference 
centered around the concept of Frugal Innovation. In this Minor, students are asked to create 
financially viable enterprises that commercially achieve the goals of a selected NGO. For this, frugal 
elements were added to the program.  
Based on the results of the expert interviews and the experimentation, the authors developed an 
initial framework for a workshop routine, suitable for a first Pilot in the next phase. 
Phase 3; Effectiveness and Improvement  
The third phase comprised the testing of the developed framework for the workshop routine. The 
framework was evaluated for gaps and improvement possibilities. Such improvements were 
subsequently incorporated. The main method employed in this phase was testing the concepts by 
conducting a pilot workshop with SME participants (entrepreneurs and their employees), facilitated 
by one of the authors and a fellow lecturer who is also an interviewed expert. During, and after the 
workshops, data was gathered in four different ways: by observation of the lecturers, a participant 
questionnaire, an overview of participants and innovations and two/three short case studies on the 
innovations of the participants.  
Firstly, the workshop routine was analyzed afterwards by the lecturers through observing the 
participants. The lecturers filled out a prepared data sheet with improvement questions identical 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
621 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
to the ones in the participant questionnaires and discussed the effectiveness and improvements 
for the workshop routine.  
Secondly, questionnaires were handed out to the participants after the presentations at the end of 
the workshop routine, requesting them to evaluate each part of the routine on a five-point Likert-
type scale ranging from ‘very bad’ to ‘very good’ to identify strengths and improvement 
possibilities. After the workshop, three selected participants were interviewed and asked about 
their innovation based on the returned questionnaires. These entrepreneurs were selected from 
the participants’ list based on their willingness to be interviewed and full participation in the 
workshop routine. A feedback session was held where improvement suggestions and other items 
important to the participants were discussed to obtain additional information on the workshop 
routine design.  
Thirdly, an overview of the participants’ innovations was created to determine the effectiveness of 
the pilot in the form of a table of all the solutions of innovations that were created during the 
workshop routine. The innovations were coded to see whether the Innovation is Frugal, Sustainable 
or Social in nature and if sales were realized two months after finalizing the workshop routine. 
Fourthly, The same three participants who were initially interviewed were also interviewed four 
months after finalizing the workshop routine. Their innovation itself, linking to the workshop 
routine and possible success of the innovation were briefly discussed together with their 
assessment on the effectiveness and improvement of the workshop routine. Special attention was 
given to the frugal elements in relation to the innovations or solutions from the workshops.  
From the previous steps, conclusions could be drawn on the effectiveness and possible gaps and 
improvements. Based on these finding an improved and semi-final framework for a workshop 
routine could be presented. 
Phase 4; Continuous improvement  
This fourth and final phase is aimed at future iterations. We have only tested the workshop once 
with actual practitioners. Further iterative development, including multiple tests with users, is also 
an important element in design research (Lofthouse, 2006). The workshop routine needs to be 
further evaluated for effectiveness, benefits, gaps and further improvement possibilities. Data on 
gaps and such improvements need to be systematically collected and need to be subsequently 
incorporated in the design of the framework. This cycle needs to be repeated until no further major 
improvements can be identified. Due to time constraints on what post-workshop feedback can be 
reasonably expected from the participating SMEs, the evaluation needs to be focused on the most 
important items. Seeking guidelines, the checklist for Circular BMI tool development was used 
(Bocken et al., 2019), this checklist was discussed with one of the interviewed experts. The checklist 
defines 10 criteria that are aimed at guiding future research (and practice) contributions in 
“sustainability-oriented innovation” and is specifically aimed at sustainability tool developers. 
Results 
This section presents the findings per phase while creating the framework for the workshop routine. 
It illustrates the idea’s origin and endorses its necessity, the conceptualization of the workshop 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
622 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
routine, evaluation by the participants and lecturers on the first pilot, with suggestion for 
continuous improvements.  
Phase 1; Discovery  
The idea to create a framework for a workshop routine with frugal elements originated from a 
dialogue between a policy maker of a regional governmental agency in the province South-Holland, 
the Netherlands, and one of the foremost specialists in Frugal Innovation. The policy maker was 
introduced to the concept of Frugal Innovation and the idea was discussed whether Frugal 
Innovation, which is usually associated with developing countries (Pisoni et al., 2018), could also be 
used in a developed context to ‘persuade’ SMEs to innovate. More specifically, SMEs that were 
currently not reached by different innovation programs and policies run by the regional 
governmental agency.  
This group of SMEs could be described as the non-gazelles. Not the frontrunners (gazelles), but the 
followers. In analogy with cycling, this is the group behind the frontrunners. The so-called peloton, 
who often do not have a high, financial growth ambition and are usually not high-tech oriented, but 
crucial to the frontrunners’ success and often large in size / numbers. This group has been proven 
difficult to reach because they believe that innovation programs are not suited for them due to the 
return on investment. However, this peloton of SMEs is very important in economic terms and the 
necessity for cashing in on this idea was demonstrated.  
To overcome this problem and lower the threshold for this group of SMEs in participating in 
innovation programs run by the regional government, the idea was born to introduce Frugal 
Innovation to a workshop routine for SMEs on ‘How to innovate’. Frugal innovations are by 
definition non-complex and are created by entrepreneurs who do not aim at a high (financial) 
growth potential.  
The three experts were interviewed and it was mutually decided that the workshop routine should 
be based on the Design Thinking process, more specifically the Double Diamond, since this concept 
has a proven record in creating innovation (Brown, 2008). The expert on Innovation Management 
recommended that the workshop routine could be based on the notion of adding frugal elements 
to the Design Thinking process. Adding frugal elements could even be interpreted as a process 
innovation itself. The frugal elements could be conceptualized and be experimented with, to see 
what works best. Additionally, relevant assumptions provided by all three experts can be found in 
the table below.  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
623 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 1 Assumptions relevant for the workshop routine 
These findings were connected with the literature review, especially the directions for future 
research (Pisoni et al., 2018). Based on these findings and the literature review, the presented 
research question (“How can frugal elements enhance the design thinking process, to support SMEs 
in creating, commercializing and diffusing frugal products, services and/or processes?”) was 
confirmed. 
Phase 2; Conceptualization 
Based on these preliminary findings, a first framework for the workshop routine was designed. With 
the Double Diamond as a starting point, each quarter (four in total) represents one session, with 
two weeks between sessions. During the sessions the participants are able to diverge and converge 
by discussing with other participants on what the actual problem is from a customer’s perspective, 
and later on what possible solutions could be.  
During the first quarter, the participants gain insights on trends within the industry and they 
visualize their own Business Model using the Business Model Canvas (Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2009) 
or Business Model Template (Jonker & Faber, 2021). By empathizing with customers the 
participants are able to re-define and/or clarify a business related problem in the second quarter. 
The participants brainstorm about potential solutions during the third quarter and try to create a 
problem-solution fit while having dialogues with fellow participants. These dialogues could be 
referred to as a first ‘sanity’-check. Finally, in the fourth quarter solutions or created innovations 
are presented to the group and feedback can be gathered from fellow participants and lecturers. 
The process described above can be defined as a regular Design Thinking process for SMEs. 
However, the uniqueness of this workshop routine lies in the addition of specific frugal elements. 
In discussions with the experts three elements have been defined: 
 
 Frugal Lens 
 Frugal Business Model Patterns 
 Frugal Intervention 
 
In the first quarter of the Double Diamond, participants are introduced to the Frugal Lens, a 
different perspective on innovation. The expert on Frugal Innovation stated that innovation is 
usually seen as high-tech solutions, created by high-tech companies, for customers who are able to 
afford such solutions. But that does not necessarily needs to be true. Why not offer simplified 
solutions by regular companies for customers who cannot afford top quality products? Innovations 
born out of the notion that we can do more with less, or for the less. This lens can be applied in 
innovating both internal processes, products, or services. Rethinking innovation this way can create 
new solutions that are otherwise overlooked. 
During the second and third quarter of the Double Diamond, participants are familiarized with 
Business Model Innovation by introducing successful Frugal Innovations and Frugal Business Model 
Patterns in their industry. These examples and patterns can be used by the participants to creatively 
develop, or adapt their current Business Model Canvas by re-using successful solutions or 
recombining with other solutions. It also helps the participants with the diffusion and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
624 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
commercialization strategies of innovations. Using Frugal Business Model Patterns was tested 
successfully in student projects.  
The Frugal Intervention takes place during all quarters of the workshop routine. Meaning 
minimising resources as much as possible, because they can be scarce, while creating innovations 
and meeting the SMEs needs. This was realized by: a) limiting the time necessary to participate in 
this workshop routine; b) limiting the amount of time spent on explaining theoretical frameworks 
by maximising action-based learning; and c) inviting industry likeminded participants to accelerate 
the learning process by not losing any time on discussing industry differences. 
In Figure 3, the graphical representation of the first framework for the workshop routine is being 
illustrated, based on the combination of the Double Diamond (Designcouncil, 2018) and the defined 
Frugal elements. 
 
 
Figure 4 First framework for the workshop routine. 
Phase 3; Effectiveness and Improvement  
Participants for testing the first framework for the workshop routine were recruited through local 
agribusiness associations and Social media. As expected, it wasn’t easy to persuade participants to 
this free-of-charge workshop routine and several stakeholders used their professional network to 
directly invite entrepreneurs. Frequently heard reasons for not participating were: ‘I don’t have 
enough time’, ‘Innovation programs are not for my kind of company’ and ‘I do not need help from 
government to run my business’. To reach a minimum amount of 10 participants, two members of 
the same SME could partake, under the condition that both members had a senior position in the 
business. The first framework for the workshop routine was tested in one trial run with 10 
participants, representing seven SMEs from the Agribusiness industry in the Westland region in the 
Netherlands. This pilot took place in the Summer of 2021 at the Erasmus university campus in 
Rotterdam. 
In the Table below you will find a participants’ overview, including the created innovations and 
categorisation of these innovation based on frugality, sustainability, and realised sales: 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
625 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Table 2 List of innovations and categorizations from the Pilot workshop 
All participating SMEs who started the workshops presented a product (5), process (1) or product 
combined with a process innovation (1) in the final quarter. Three of those product innovations 
have already been commercialized. Moreover, out of the eight innovations in total, six had either 
frugal features (e.g. simplifying processes in the organization without using ICT solutions) and  six 
were social or sustainable to a certain degree. These results exceeded the expectations of the 
stakeholders.  
Immediately after finalizing the workshop routine evaluation forms were handed out to the 
participants. In the Table below the results are presented: 
 
Table 3 Participants Evaluation 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
626 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Due to the limited number of SMEs participating in this first pilot it is presumptuous to draw any 
conclusions on the workshop’s routine effectiveness from these answers. However, the answers 
implicate that: a) the workshop routine helped the participants to innovate and they became better 
at innovating; b) Frugal Innovation is a relevant concept for the participants; and c) the participants 
would recommend this free-of-charge workshop routine to others.  
Taking a closer look at three participants who were interviewed and asked about their innovation 
in relation to the workshop routine, led to the following statements about the effectiveness of the 
workshop 
routine 
and 
improvements:
 
Table 4 Case studies / Interviews with three participants 
The case studies / interviews confirm that the participants experienced the workshop routine 
beneficial in the creation of a relevant innovation. Also, the assumptions on which the workshop 
routine were based and learning how to innovate were being confirmed by the participants. Some 
even re-did the workshops within their own company to extend the effect of the workshop routine. 
Some ideas for improvement were proposed by the participants. Suggestions were: Allocating more 
time to validation of the proposed innovation e.g. financial validation; additional tooling which is 
transferable to other innovations; extra attention to multiple value creation and increasing the 
ability to innovate by innovating for others as well. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
627 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
When comparing observations of both lecturers during and after finalizing the workshop routine, 
both lecturers agreed that the pilot has been a success in terms of creating innovations in a 
relatively short period of time. However, there is still room for incremental improvements. Some 
ideas for improvement according to the lecturers are: 
 
The workshop increased the agility of the SMEs to innovate during changing 
conditions. The SMEs have superior knowledge of their own processes and markets. The 
workshop helps participants to look beyond their markets / industry; 
 
 In addition to the Frugal lens a “multiple value-lens” could be added to the first 
session, in order to increase the likelihood of innovations being either social or sustainable. 
An entrepreneur’s main focus is financial, but this could be extended. This can replace 
general clips on innovation outside the industry which did not resonate well with the 
participants; 
 
When two participants from the same SME join the workshops this leads to an 
unexpected by-product. The creation of a new innovation resulted not only in an innovation 
but also in the development of a shared view on leadership within the SME. Innovating is also 
deciding on how to approach future challenges. The workshop triggered vital discussions. 
Pairs should be stimulated to join the workshop and the leadership development should be a 
part of the workshop routine. 
 
Allocating enough time before the last session in order to create a prototype and 
financial validation of the innovation, and prompting participants to present such findings in 
the final session. The session can be combined with feedback from other participants. 
 
The trainers’ role for this target group (the peloton of SMEs) should be primarily 
facilitating dialogue between participants, limit theoretical frameworks, simply explain the 
tools and maximise action learning, but also ask critical questions regarding the innovations. 
The perspective of somebody not working in the sector was much appreciated by the 
participants. 
The gathered data on the effectiveness and improvements resulted in an improved framework 
design of the workshop routine with incremental changes based on the input from the participants 
and the lecturers. The incremental changes are in black. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
628 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
Figure 4 Adapted workshop routine after feedback from participants and trainers 
Four items were added to the routine. At the start of the workshops attention should be given that 
the goal of the workshop is value creation, creation of value for customers and employees, financial 
value for continuity but also value for the planet as a whole. This may lead to even more sustainable 
innovations. As a by-product, pairs from SMEs experienced growth in common understanding of 
future strategy and leadership within the SME. This should be addressed explicitly at the start, and 
before the workshops. The proposed solutions should be validated better but in a time efficient 
(Frugal) way. Finally, participants requested additional, practical tools (e.g. financial validation) for 
implementation after the workshop. These improvements should help SMEs to increase their 
innovation ability beyond the innovation created during the workshops. 
Phase 4; Continuous improvement 
This framework for a workshop routine is a work in progress. Only one pilot has been completed 
with actual practitioners. When writing this paper, already other workshop routines for SMEs 
operating in other industries besides the Agribusiness industry have been pre-discussed with 
different policymakers of the regional governmental agency. After each future iteration, the 
framework for the workshop routine needs to be evaluated using observations, discussions and 
questionnaires. This, in order to determine benefits, remaining gaps and possible improvements. 
However, to be considered ‘validated in practice’, the framework for the workshop routine must 
be empirically tested and needs to be documented in a future publication. When applying Bocken’s 
checkbox for Circular BMI tool development Bocken et al., 2019a) not all criteria have been met. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
629 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Table 5 Checklist for CBMI tool development (Bocken et al., 2019a) 
This needs to be accomplished in the coming period with a special focus on gathering data for 
improvements in future iterations and increasing the sustainability impact. The latter could be 
attained, according to one of the interviewed participants, by extending the focus on multiple value 
validation, exceeding the financial value. 
Discussion and preliminary conclusions 
The concluding section of this paper summarises the key findings and addresses the key research 
question – how frugal elements could enhance the design thinking process, to support SMEs in 
creating, commercializing and diffusing frugal products, services and/or processes – by developing 
a framework for a workshop routine. This is followed by limitations & recommendations for future 
research directions. Subsequently, a final important implication of this research is discussed.  
Key findings & policy implications 
The common thread when developing this framework for a workshop routine was doing more with 
less. By adding frugal elements to the design thinking process, a workshop routine was created. The 
workshop routine should result in the creation and commercialization of several 
innovations/solutions for a specific group of SMEs. This specific group of SMEs, the ‘peloton’ are 
normally hesitant towards innovation programmes, often overlooked due to the governments 
primary focus on the industry’s frontrunners. 
In a pilot, this peloton of SMEs was challenged to capture and create value with frugal innovations 
in their products, services and/or processes, and improve their overall sustainable business 
modelling process. The Pilot was successful in the creation of products, process or business model 
innovations. 75% of the innovations can be classified as sustainable or social. All participants 
perceived the workshop as successful in assisting them to innovate. Adding frugal elements 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
630 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
resonated well with this target group. Valuable feedback from the participants was gathered to 
further improve the effectiveness of the workshop routine.  
The key research question of this paper has been answered by developing a framework for a 
workshop routine based on the Double Diamond process, describing the divergent and convergent 
stages of the design process (Designcouncil, 2018) and the following Frugal elements: 
 
 Frugal Lens with a focus on (multiple) value creation 
 Frugal Business Model Patterns 
 Frugal Leadership Development 
 Frugal Validation  
 Frugal Intervention (limited time, limited theory, vertical learning community, practical tools) 
 
 
Figure 5 resulting preliminary workshop design 
 
Although design thinking has already been successfully applied to such fields as product innovation 
and business model innovation(Geissdoerfer et al,. 2016), the present study was, as far as we know, 
the first attempt to make the design thinking process itself frugal. By ‘Frugalising’ the design 
thinking process with its focus on simplicity and limited resources, the specific target group of SMEs 
might be willing to invest some of their precious resource time to innovate. And policy makers might 
start to pay extra attention to this, in economic terms, interesting group, next to the industry’s 
frontrunners. This particular focus might indirectly create innovations that are sustainable although 
this was not be the primary focus of the SMEs at the start as was shown in the Pilot. 
Limitations & recommendations 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
631 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Although the pilot could be considered a success based on the amount of product/process 
innovations that have been created by the participating SMEs and already partially commercialized, 
future iterations are necessary to reach a fully developed framework for the workshop routine. 
Therefore, a recommendation would be to execute several more pilots over the coming years, in 
order to enable these future iterations and validation of the framework in practice. Only then, the 
framework for the workshop routine can be empirically tested and documented in a future 
publication.  
To further accelerate such future iterations and validation, another recommendation would be to 
develop transparent procedures and guidance on how to facilitate the workshop routine. Recruiting 
and educating a group of trainers, next to the current two trainers, is meant to minimise the risk of 
research stagnation and increase independency. Special focus on SMEs should be taken into 
consideration while recruiting and educating these trainers.  
Applying the framework for the workshop routine in different industries might also result in 
different combinations of frugal elements, with different successful or less successful outcomes. 
Based on one pilot it is not possible to draw any conclusions regarding the success rate in different 
industries. Therefore, a final recommendation would be to run pilots for pelotons of SMEs operating 
in different industries.  
Further implications 
For SMEs creating sustainable value is not on the forefront of their mind. Continuation, especially 
in times of crises, is foremost (Pisoni et al., 2018). Therefore, sustainability objectives were not 
explicitly incorporated into the design of the framework for the workshop routine. It was assumed 
that it might avoid SMEs from not participating in the workshop.  
Although, sustainability had not been included as a topic, it was still surprising to discover that six 
out of the eight innovations created during the pilot showed sustainable or social features. These 
results implicate there is a need to further understand the link between the frugal elements and 
sustainable outcomes.  
Also sustainability could be addressed more prominently during the workshop routine. One of the 
interviewees even suggested to increase the scope of value creation to the SDGs. This could be 
done by quantifying the financial, social or sustainable impact of the created innovations. Adding 
practical tooling – based on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations (Kraaij & 
Poldner, 2021)– will make it possible to simultaneously measure the social and sustainable impact 
of frugal innovations (Pisoni et al., 2018) and persuade this group of SMEs that it is worthwhile to 
put sustainability in the forefront of their mind. 
References  
Agarwal, N., & Brem, A. (2017) Frugal innovation-past, present, and future. IEEE Engineering Management 
Review, 45(3), 37-41. 
Amshoff, B., Dülme, C., Echterfeld, J., & Gausemeir J. (2015) Business model patterns for disruptive 
technologies. International Journal of Innovation Management, 19(3), 1540002. 
Arnold, M. G. . (2018) Sustainability value creation in frugal contexts to foster Sustainable Development Goals. 
Business Strategy & Development, 1(4), 265-275. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
632 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Bocken, N.M., Boons, F. & Baldassarre, B. (2019) Sustainable business model experimentation by 
understanding ecologies of business models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 208, 1498-1512. 
Bocken, N., Strupeit, L., Whalen, K., & Nußholz, J. (2019a) A review and evaluation of circular business model 
innovation tools. Sustainability, 11(8), 2210. 
Brown, T. (2008) Design thinking. Harvard Business Review, 86(6), 85–92. 
Brown, T. (2009) Change by Design: How Design Thinking. Harper Business. 
Designcouncil. (2018) The Design Process: What is the Double Diamond? Available from design-process-what-
double-diamond: 
https://www.designcouncil.org.uk/news-opinion/design-process-what-double-
diamond. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Bocken, N. M., & Hultink, E. J. (2016) Design thinking to enhance the sustainable business 
modelling process–A workshop based on a value mapping process. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
135, 1218-1232. 
Ghorbel, F., Hachicha, W., Boujelbene, Y., & Aljua. (2021) Linking Entrepreneurial Innovation to Effectual 
Logic. Sustainability, 13(5), 2626. 
He, J. & Ortiz, J. (2021) Sustainable business modeling: The need for innovative design thinking. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 298, 126751. 
Hossain, M. (2018) Frugal innovation: A review and research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production, 182, 926-
936. 
Hossain, M. (2021). Frugal innovation and sustainable business models. Technology in Society, 64, 101508. 
ICFI. (2022) International Centre for Frugal Innovation. Available at: https://www.icfi.nl/education/minor-
fi4sgd [Accessed 8th January 2022] 
Iqbal, Q. & Ahmad, N. H. (2021) The colors of sustainable leadership in learning organization. Sustainable 
development, 29(1), 108-119. 
Klenner, N. F., Gemser, G. & Karpen, I. O. (2021) Entrepreneurial ways of designing and designerly ways of 
entrepreneuring: Exploring the relationship between design thinking and effectuation theory. 
Journal of Product Innovation Management, 1-29. 
Knorringa, P., Peša, I., Leliveld, A. & Van Beers, C. (2016) Frugal innovation and development: Aides or 
adversaries? The European Journal of Development Research, 28(2), 143-153. 
Kraaij, A. & Limonard, S. (2021) Doing more with less: Towards a conceptual framework for frugal business 
model innovation. In: Kopnina, H. Circular Economy: Challenges and Opportunities for Ethical and 
Sustainable Business . Abingdon, UK, Routledge, pp. 40-62 
Kraaij, A. & Poldner, K. (2021) BM Experimentation; A tool for calculating the financial and sustainable 
business case of new Business Models. In: Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on New 
Business Models: New Business Models in a Decade of Action: Sustainable, Evidence-based, 
Impactful, Halmstad, Sweden. Halmstad University Press. pp. 499-505. 
Kummitha, R. K. R. (2019) Design thinking in social organizations: Understanding the role of user engagement. 
Creativity and innovation management, 28(1), 101-112. 
Lofthouse, V. (2006) Ecodesign tools for designers: defining the requirements. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
14(15-16), 1386-1395. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L., & Breuer H. (2018) The Sustainable Business Model 
Pattern Taxonomy – 45 Patterns to Support Sustainability-Oriented Business Model Innovation. 
Sustainable Production and Consumption, Vol. 15, 14. 
Meinel, C., & Leifer, L. (2011) Understanding Innovation. Springer. pp. 17-18. 
Pisoni, A., Michelini, L. & Martignoni, G. (2018) Frugal approach to innovation: State of the art and future 
perspectives. Journal of Cleaner Production, 171, 107-126. 
Radjou, N. & Prabhu, J. (2015) Frugal Innovation: How to do more with less. The Economist., pp. 50-62. 
Rosca, E., Arnold, M. and Bendul, J.C. (2017), Business models for sustainable innovation – an empirical 
analysis of frugal products and services, Journal of Cleaner Production, Vol. 162, pp. S133–S145. 
Schumpeter, J. (1942). Capitalism, socialism, and democracy. New York, NY: Harper. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
633 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Snihur, Y., & Bocken, N. (2022). A call for action: The impact of business model innovation on business 
ecosystems, society, and planet. Long Range Planning. 
Spulber, D. F. . (2014). The innovative entrepreneur. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 
Tiwari, R., & Bergmann, S. (2018) What pathways lead to frugal innovation? Some insights on modes & 
routines of frugal, technical inventions based on an analysis of patent data in German auto 
components industry. Hamburg University of Technology (TUHH), Working Paper No. 105. 
Weking, J., Hein, A., Böhm, M., & Krcmar, H. (2018). A hierarchical taxonomy of business model patterns. 
Electronic Markets, 1-22. 
Weyrauch, T. & Herstatt, C. (2017) What is Frugal innovation? Three defining criteria. Journal of Frugal 
innovation, 2(1), 1. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
634 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Joint project partnerships between 
sustainable entrepreneurs and higher 
education institutions: A critical 
analysis 
 
Dr Georgios Outsios* 
Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium  
*georgios.outsios@vub.ac.be  
Abstract 
Corresponding to surging policymaking and public interests in sustainable entrepreneurship and 
innovation as well as the role of Higher Education Institutions in fostering them, the current 
research offers a critical perspective on joint project partnerships between universities and 
sustainable entrepreneurs. Through a networks approach, the problematic areas of joint project 
partnerships are identified and analysed through a two-stage research process including a survey 
and a series of in-depth interviews.   
Keyword 
sustainable entrepreneurship, university-enterprise partnerships, critical analysis, networks  
Introduction and scope of the study 
For decades before and after the conceptualisation of Sustainable Development by the World 
Commission on Environment and Development (WCED, 1987) and later the ratification of the Kyoto 
Protocol (1997), a climate change paradox endured. Developing countries (e.g., from central Africa) 
which contributed less towards climate change were experiencing the consequences (i.e., extreme 
weather phenomena) most intensely. Conversely, the northern hemisphere, a major contributor to 
climate crisis through the industrial revolution, was experiencing less environmental externalities 
linked to it. Today, while ramifications of anthropogenic climate crises are increasingly evident in 
developed countries (e.g., wildfires in the US, Canada and Australia, summer flooding in northern 
Europe, extreme temperatures and wildfires in southern Europe and North America), the transition 
towards sustainable development has been set as the current century’s ultimate challenge. It lead 
policymakers to set ambitious plans, such as the United Nation’s 2030 Agenda (UN, 2015). 
Sustainable entrepreneurship and innovation were acknowledged as a cornerstone in the process 
of transition to a sustainable world. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
635 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The origins of sustainable entrepreneurship as a field of practice trace back to the 1960s and the 
peace movement which inspired the rise of early entrepreneurs with sustainable goals (Schaltegger 
& Wagner, 2008). The movement’s culture and philosophy along early entrepreneurial role models 
influenced the mindset and emergence of contemporary sustainable entrepreneurs (Outsios and 
Kittler, 2018). As a research field, sustainable entrepreneurship emerged in the management 
science during the 1990s with sporadic seminal works in the form of conceptual and theoretical 
contributions (e.g. Blue, 1990; Bennet, 1991; Berle, 1991; Hart & Milstein, 1999). Although 
significant research breakthroughs have been achieved in the field of entrepreneurship research, 
sustainable entrepreneurship research only recently has started to make significant contributions 
to theory and practice. 
On a regional and policymaking level, the European Union (EU), through its parliament and 
executive institution (the European Commission), set out the “2030 Climate Target Plan” for the 
immediate, significant reduction of greenhouses gases and carbon neutrality by 2050 (European 
Commission, 2019). To achieve this complex and challenging goal, the European Commission 
invests important economic resources on sustainable entrepreneurship and innovation across 
industries. While to date research in the area has been significantly underfunded and scarce, the 
emergence and growth of sustainable entrepreneurs flourished. One key area of public, 
policymaking interest and EU investments is joint project partnerships between sustainable 
enterprises and Higher Education Institutions (HEIs). Knowledge transfer and the opportunity to 
generate, test, commercialise and scale up sustainable innovations have created a proactive 
framework for the partnerships. 
The current study draws upon research advancements in network perspectives in entrepreneurship 
research (e.g. Theodoraki et al., 2018) and contributes to the expanding debate on the context of 
sustainable entrepreneurship. The study analyses critically the joint project partnerships between 
HEIs and sustainable entrepreneurs. For research purposes the definition suggested by Dean and 
McMullen (2007) is adopted and environmental entrepreneurs are considered a subset of a broader 
sustainable entrepreneurs’ group. Environmental entrepreneurs are defined as actors who enter 
“the process of discovering, evaluating, and exploiting economic opportunities that are present in 
environmentally relevant market failures” (Dean & McMullen, 2007:58). The following sections 
focus on the analysis of existing research on the topic (section 2), the study’s research approach 
(section 3). Finally, section 4 is dedicated to the anticipated findings and the contribution to theory 
and implications for practice.  
Background and current knowledge on the subject 
HEIs and especially universities, are strongly encouraged (e.g., financial incentives, stronger 
research profile, commercial overreach) by policymakers and research to explore and identify 
opportunities to engage with existing or emerging sustainable entrepreneurs (Fichter & Tiemann, 
2018). Potential emerging, existing or latent sustainable entrepreneurs are equally encouraged 
(e.g., financial incentives, access to knowledge) to enter joint partnerships with HEIs in research 
and development of new innovative ideas, products and services (Volkmann et al., 2021). The scope 
is to create a thriving environment to design, develop, implement and commercialise sustainable 
innovation projects. The market and literature are dominated by successful stories from across 
sectors. Nevertheless, research in the area of partnership between HEIs and sustainable 
entrepreneurs lacks critical perspectives. To date research focused mainly on amplifying the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
636 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
positive side of those partnerships, while knowledge on the characteristics and quality of those 
interactions remains fragmented (Gast et al., 2017).  
The study corresponds to recent calls for further research on sustainable entrepreneurial context, 
with a specific focus on the role of universities in fostering sustainable entrepreneurship (Gast et 
al., 2017; Pinna, 2021). Extant literature acknowledges in financial institutions, HEIs, customers, 
suppliers, policymakers and other sources of cultural and the economic value the contextual 
elements of sustainable entrepreneurial networks (Welter, 2011; Pankov et al., 2021). Universities 
play an important role in fostering sustainable entrepreneurship  (Hayter 2016; Theodoraki et al., 
2018).  
Neumeyer and Santos (2018) underline the need for further research on HEIs as components of 
sustainable entrepreneurship ecosystems. A remaining less explored area of network research in 
sustainable entrepreneurship is the investigation of the interaction between actors and specifically 
universities and sustainable entrepreneurs in joint partnerships. A systematic evaluation of existing 
knowledge on the subject including systematic queries on four major data bases, (i) the Web of 
Science, (ii) Science Direct, (iii) Emerald and (iv) Ingenta with all possible combinations of relevant 
keywords has resulted to the identification of only two relevant research articles. The identified 
relevant studies include research by Nave and Franco (2019) and a study by Sáez-Martínez et al. 
(2019). Both studies make significant theoretical contribution to university-firm cooperation 
literature in sustainable entrepreneurship. Yet questions regarding problematic areas remain 
unaddressed.  
The role of networks and sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems has in the past been amplified 
(Cohen, 2006). More recent studies identify the evolving role of universities in sustainable 
entrepreneurship (Theodoraki, 2016; Gast et al., 2017; Munoz and Cohen, 2018). Problems and 
obstacles (e.g., general management disagreements, disputes over management of funds and 
intellectual property rights) between sustainable entrepreneurs and Higher Education Institutions 
have been documented. The area lacks a critical perspective on the interactions between 
universities and sustainable entrepreneurs. The current study addresses the relevant knowledge 
gap by focusing on the analysis of problematic areas in joint project partnerships between 
sustainable entrepreneurs and universities.  
Research Approach  
The current research project seeks to critically analyse the joint project partnerships between 
sustainable entrepreneurs and Higher Education Institutions. It focuses on the context of 
sustainable entrepreneurial activity and specifically the dynamic of partnerships between 
environmental entrepreneurs and universities. The critical realist epistemological assumptions 
which guide the current research stem from the nature of the subject (the partnerships) and the 
topic (the problems) under research. Blundell (2007) argued of the advantages critical realist 
approaches confer to entrepreneurship research (Mole & Mole, 2010 Matthyssens et al., 2013). 
The subfield of sustainable entrepreneurship to date lacks critical perspectives, which combined 
with the use of a mixed methods research approach enable to develop a more realistic view of the 
topic under research (Molina-Azorín et al., 2012). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
637 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The research focuses on environmental entrepreneurs in Belgium, a country context which offers 
significant advantages from a research, policymakers and practitioners’ standpoints. Belgium is 
located at the heart (geographically and institutionally) of the EU. The country’s strong (founders 
of European Union and basis of the European Commission and European Parliament) links to the 
European Institutions has enabled to develop a thriving environment for sustainable entrepreneurs, 
who benefit from the proximity to the EU institutions in gaining financial and other forms of 
support. In many sectors Belgium is a pioneer in the implementation of European legislation. An 
inclusive approach will be adopted by incorporating in the sample environmental entrepreneurs 
who emerged independently, or as spin-offs, through incubators, or accelerators. The main 
inclusion criteria are (a) to be environmental entrepreneurs and (b) to participate in a joint project 
with a university.    
For the study’s primary data collection and analysis purposes a mixed methods research strategy 
will be employed. Specifically, the systematic review of knowledge in the topic enabled to develop 
a fifteen question survey with the scope to assess the satisfaction levels of sustainable 
entrepreneurs in specific areas of joint projects with universities. Findings will be used to develop 
questions for a series of semi-structured in-depth interviews. Statistical analysis (i.e. liner 
regression) will be used to analyse the data collected from the survey. Qualitative thematic analysis 
will be used to analyse and identify themes on problems and areas for improvement during project 
collaborations as well as other interesting but currently unidentified yet themes.  
Data analyses will also help highlight common patterns as well as differences in the experiences of 
those collaborations among participants. Overall, the principles of rigour and trustworthiness 
transcend the project which has been designed, is being developed, and will be completed around 
the universal research criteria of external and internal validity, reliability, and objectivity (Saunders 
et al., 2003; (Bryman & Bell, 2011). A detailed plan of specific actions for each criterion of research 
verification is under constant development. 
Anticipated Findings Contribution to Theory and 
Implications for Practice 
The study contributes to theory development in sustainable entrepreneurship research, by 
shedding light on problematic areas in joint project partnerships between environmental 
entrepreneurs and universities. By doing so, it contributes further to the emerging ecosystems 
literature in entrepreneurship research by offering data and analysis from the subset of 
environmental entrepreneurs, a group currently overlooked by the research stream.  
The present climate crisis amplifies the topic’s timeliness, while sustainable entrepreneurship and 
innovation became key parts in sustainable development. The project focuses on a critical 
population, sustainable entrepreneurs, identified as change agents in the process of transition 
towards a sustainable economy. The study’s findings will confer significant implications for practice 
and specifically for practitioners (i.e., environmental entrepreneurs and universities), policymakers 
and educators. The findings will offer a framework and guide for policymakers and practitioners to 
increase the efficiency and effectiveness of future joint project partnerships. This will enable to 
decrease the risk of failure in future projects. Environmental entrepreneurs can use the study’s 
findings as a guide for anticipated risks and issues before entering the process of joint project 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
638 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
partnerships and prepare adequately in order to overcome them. The findings will also inform 
educators of potential issues relevant to joint project partnerships and of ways to improve their 
education and training curricula on specific areas. 
References 
Abreu, M. & Grinevich, V., (2013) The nature of academic entrepreneurship in the UK: widening the focus on 
entrepreneurial activities. Research Policy, 42, pp.408–422. 
Blundell, R. (2007) Critical realism: a suitable vehicle for entrepreneurship research, in Neergaard, H. and 
Ulhøi, J.P. (Eds), Handbook of Qualitative Research Methods in Entrepreneurship, Edward Elgar, 
Cheltenham. 
Bennett, S. (1991). Ecopreneuring: The complete Guide to Small Business Opportunities from the 
Environmental Revolution, New York, John Willey & Sons.  
Berle, G. (1991) The green entrepreneur: Business opportunities that can save the earth and make you 
money, Blue Ridge Summit, PA, Liberty Hall Press. 
Bischoff, K., Volkmann, C. K., & Audretsch, D.B. (2018) Stakeholder collaboration in entrepreneurship 
education: an analysis of the entrepreneurial ecosystems of European higher educational 
institutions, Journal of Technology Transfer, 43(1), pp.20–46.  
Blue, J. (1990) Ecopreneuring: Managing for results, London, Scott Foresman.  
Bryman, A. & Bell, E. (2011) Business Research Methods, 3rd edition, Oxford Press, Oxford. 
Cohen B., (2006) Sustainable Entrepreneurial Ecosystems, Business Strategy and the Environment, 15, pp.1-
14. 
Dean, T.J., & McMullen, J.S. (2007) Toward a theory of sustainable entrepreneurship: Reducing environmental 
degradation through entrepreneurial action”, Journal of Business Venturing, 22(1), pp.50-76.  
European Commission, (2019)  European Green Deal, Brussels. 
Fichter, K., & Tiemann, I. (2018) Factors influencing university support for sustainable entrepreneurship: 
Insights from explorative case studies, Journal of Cleaner Production, 175,  pp.512–524. 
Gast, J., Gundolf, K. & Cesinger, B., (2017) Doing business in a green way: A systematic review of the ecological 
sustainability entrepreneurship literature and future research directions”, Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 147, pp.44-56. 
Hart, S.L. & Milstein. M.B, (1999) Global Sustainability and the Creative Destruction of Industries, MIT Sloan 
Management Review, 41(1), pp.23-33. 
José Sáez-Martínez, F., González-Moreno, Á., & Hogan, T. (2014) The role of University in eco-
entrepreneurship: evidence from the Eurobarometer survey on attitudes of European Entrepreneurs 
towards eco-innovation, Environmental Engineering and Management, 13(10), pp.2541-2549. 
Matthyssens, P., Vandenbempt, K. & Van Bockhaven, W., (2013) Structural antecedents of institutional 
entrepreneurship in industrial networks: A critical realist explanation, Industrial Marketing 
Management, 42(3), pp.405-420. 
Mole, K. F., & Mole, M., (2010) Entrepreneurship as the structuration of individual and opportunity: A 
response using a critical realist perspective. Comment on Sarason, Dean and Dillard, Journal of 
Business Venturing, 25(2), pp.230-237.  
Molina-Azorín, J.F., López-Gamero, M.D., Pereira-Moliner, J., Pertusa-Ortega, E.M., (2012). Mixed methods 
studies in entrepreneurship research: Applications and contributions. Entrepreneurship & Regional 
Development, 24(5-6), pp.425-456. 
Munoz, P. & Cohen, B. (2018) Sustainable Entrepreneurship Research: Taking stock and looking ahead, 
Business Strategy and the Environment, 27, pp.300-322.  
Nave, A., & Franco, M. (2019) University-Firm cooperation as a way to promote sustainability practices: A 
sustainable entrepreneurship perspective. Journal of Cleaner Production, 230, pp.1188–1196.  
Neumeyer, X., & Santos, S.C. (2018) Sustainable business models, venture typologies, and entrepreneurial 
ecosystems: A social network perspective, Journal of Cleaner Production, 172, pp. 4565-4579.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
639 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Outsios, G., & Kittler, M. (2018) The mindset of UK environmental entrepreneurs: A habitus perspective. 
International Small Business Journal: Researching Entrepreneurship, 36(3), pp.285–306. 
Pankov, S., Velamuri, V.K. & Schneckenberg, D. (2021) Towards sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems: 
examining the effect of contextual factors on sustainable entrepreneurial activities in the sharing 
economy, Small Business Economics, 56(3), pp.1073-1095. 
Pinna M. (2021) Sustainable Entrepreneurship: A Systematic Review of Academic Research, Switzerland, 
Springer Nature.  
Saunders, M., Lewis, P. & Thornhill, A. (2003) Research Methods for Business students, 3rd edition, Harlow, 
Pearsons Education Limited. 
Schaltegger, S. & Wagner, M. (2008) Types of sustainable entrepreneurship and conditions for sustainability 
innovation: from the administration of a technical challenge to the management of an 
entrepreneurial opportunity, In Wüstenhagen, R., Hamschmidt, J., Sharma, S. & Starik, M. (Eds.), 
Sustainable Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Cheltenham, Edward Elgar Publishing Lim. 
Shinn, T., & Lamy, E. (2006) Paths of commercial knowledge: Forms and consequences of university-
enterprise synergy in scientist-sponsored firms. Research Policy, 35(10), pp.1465–1476.  
Theodoraki, C., Dana, L.P. & Caputo, A. (2021). Building sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems: A holistic 
approach. Journal of Business Research, 140, pp.346-360.  
Theodoraki, C., Messeghem, K. & Rice, M.P. (2018) A social capital approach to the development of 
sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems: an explorative study, Small Business Economics, 51(1),  
pp.153-170. 
United Nations, (2015) Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, New York. 
Volkmann, C., Fichter, K., Klofsten, M., & Audretsch, D.B. (2021) Sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystems: an 
emerging field of research, Small Business Economics, 56(3), pp.1047–1055. 
WCED, (1987) Our Common Future, Oxford, Oxford University Press. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
640 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
A Sufficiency Business Database as a 
Tool to Drive Sustainable Business 
Models 
Laura Niessen1,*, Nancy Bocken1 
1Maastricht Sustainability Institute, School of Business and Economics, 
Maastricht University, Netherlands  
*l.niessen@maastrichtuniversity.nl  
Extended abstract 
Humanity has already crossed five of the nine planetary boundaries (Persson et al., 2022; Steffen 
et al., 2015): we have seen a sharp decline in biodiversity and an increase in greenhouse gas 
emissions, destroying the ecosystems we rely on. There is a clear need to realign systems of 
production and consumption into sustainable pathways. While parts of humanity are struggling to 
meet basic needs, affluent parts of societies are overconsuming resources. The concept of 
sufficiency advocates a levelling of consumption towards sustainable levels to reduce resource use 
and stay within planetary boundaries while meeting human needs for all (Spangenberg & Lorek, 
2019). Sufficiency is about fulfilling human needs, now and into the future, with a minimal input of 
resources (Alexander, 2012). As such, it is closely related to the concept of frugal innovation, which 
partly focuses on sustainable consumption (Pisoni, Michelini & Martignoni, 2018). While frugal 
innovation differs from sufficiency in some respects (e.g., a stronger focus on production), both 
fields acknowledge the need to limit and decrease resource consumption (Prabhu, 2017). Research 
has highlighted the need to integrate sufficiency into frugal innovation (Albert, 2019) and pointed 
to the potential of frugal innovation in driving sufficiency-enabling business models (Bocken & 
Short, 2016). We argue that the concept of sufficiency will be needed to shift the focus in business 
towards a different view on consumption, ultimately towards consuming less. 
Business model innovation for sufficiency deserves more attention to ensure that business models 
implemented with the aim of sustainability indeed support reduced resource use rather than 
intensifying the problem. With research increasingly recognizing the need for sufficiency to be built 
into the circular economy (Velenturf & Purnell, 2021), and research on sufficiency growing 
(Sandberg, 2021), there is potential for researchers to guide the transformation of business models 
into full sustainability. Tools are used in sustainable business model innovation to “support 
understanding, assessment, creativity and/or change on particular practices” (Velter, Bitzer & 
Bocken, 2021: p. 3). They can help in the design of business models and take different forms, such 
as the Business Model Canvas (Osterwalder, 2010), archetypes or typologies (e.g., Bocken et al., 
2014; Luedeke-Freund et al., 2019). Another tool for sustainable business innovation are databases; 
for instance, to collate business model patterns (Remane et al., 2017) or circular practitioners and 
their experimentation practices (Circular X, 2022). While tools and databases for sustainable 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
641 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
business models are growing in number (Geissdoerfer, Vladimirova & Evans, 2018; Pieroni, 
McAloone & Pigosso, 2019), there is a distinct lack of tools on sufficiency. This database is aimed at 
filling the gap: By providing real-world examples of businesses that support sufficient consumption 
through their communication and actions, the database highlights the viability of sufficiency-
oriented strategies. Companies can learn from practice and be inspired to adjust their own business 
model. Following the idea of open science, this public database is also meant to increase the 
visibility of sufficiency action already happening at the business level and provide an informational 
resource for research, policy makers and the general public.  
The sufficiency business database tool is built on original research by Niessen and Bocken (2021). 
In their paper, the authors identified sufficiency-enabling business practitioners through a 3-step 
research process. First, they reviewed literature on sufficiency business strategies, then they 
completed an online keyword search for companies communicating about sufficiency. The results 
were then complemented with expert recommendations of businesses that support sufficiency. 
The review in Niessen and Bocken (2021) resulted in an analysis of sufficiency strategies for 105 
businesses and an assessment of the viability, desirability, feasibility and sustainability of Business 
for Sufficiency strategies.   
This research expanded the existing list of 105 companies through further recommendations by 
experts and by reviewing online lists of sustainable companies. Following Niessen and Bocken 
(2021), businesses were selected if they actively communicate to consumers about the need to 
change consumption patterns (e.g., recognizing resource constraints / overconsumption; 
suggesting slow consumption / consuming less). After screening, another 45 sufficiency-enabling 
businesses were added to the database. All 150 companies were reviewed again to identify and 
summarise their business model characteristics (value proposition, creation and delivery, capture) 
(Bocken, 2015), add exemplary sufficiency statements, map the Business for Sufficiency strategies 
applied (based on Niessen & Bocken, 2021), and include the company’s purpose and specific 
governance status (e.g., B-Corporation certified, social enterprise). Data was collected from the 
companies’ public communications (e.g., website, LinkedIn profile) and gaps were filled with 
publicly available data (e.g., national company registries, Crunchbase financial data). Throughout 
the review process, over 1,200 documents were coded in Atlas.ti to populate the initial Google 
Sheet-based database with relevant information (see excerpt in Figure 1). After the database was 
populated, each company in the database was contacted in January 2022 to review their entry and 
add any missing information. Company feedback from 42 businesses was integrated and the 
database is intended for further expansion with new cases. 
Figure 5 EXTRACT FROM SUFFICIENCY BUSINESS DATABASE (OWN SOURCE) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
642 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The database will be continuously improved based on company feedback and new business cases. 
To make it an attractive tool for business, policy makers, researchers and the general public, it will 
be redesigned to include search functions and enable easy comparability. This will ideally be piloted 
with users (e.g., researchers or businesses) to ensure they can access the relevant information 
easily and preclude the database not being used as a tool (Bocken et al., 2019). 
Some limitations to this research should be highlighted. First, businesses were identified as 
sufficiency-supporting based on their own communication only. Companies were added if they 
advocated changed consumption behaviour but the actual impact of their sufficiency strategies 
could not be established in this research. Patagonia’s 2011 ‘Don’t buy this jacket’ marketing 
campaign, for instance, led to increased sales (Meltzer, 2017). Understanding the impact of 
sufficiency-supporting companies on  consumption has been identified as a barrier by previous 
research (Bocken et al., 2018; Niessen & Bocken, 2021). Second, of the sixteen Business for 
Sufficiency strategies previously identified in Niessen and Bocken (2021), businesses in the 
database most commonly implemented the strategies Green alternative (providing more 
environmentally-friendly products / services), Awareness-raising (of consumption impacts, e.g., 
through social media) and Design (for longevity, reparability, etc.). More radical strategies such as 
Question consumption (openly questioning if something should be bought, e.g., on Black Friday) or 
Moderating sales (foregoing discounts and price reductions) were the exception. This might be due 
to the pressure to be profitable and the need to grow sales to satisfy stakeholders. Alternatively, 
companies might simply not be aware of these sufficiency strategies or perceive them as ‘anti-
business’. Future research could investigate the impact of sufficiency businesses on their 
customers’ consumption as well as how business sufficiency strategies relate to issues such as 
business governance, ownership, or finance (Kelly, 2012).  
To conclude, this database of sufficiency companies was created as a tool to support sustainable 
business models, to raise awareness among policy makers and the general public, and to support 
further research into the topic. Sufficient consumption is a requirement for remaining within the 
planetary boundaries while meeting current and future needs of humans. Sufficiency-enabling 
business models can support the development of more sustainable consumption patterns, and, 
paired with concepts like frugal innovation in production, can greatly reduce resource use and its 
associated negative impacts. 
Keywords  
Sufficiency, Sustainable consumption, Sustainable business models, Database, Business model tools 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
643 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Funding source. This research has received funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 
European Research Council (ERC) funding scheme under grant agreement No. 850159, project 
Circular X. See: www.circularx.eu. 
References  
Albert, M. (2019) Sustainable frugal innovation - The connection between frugal innovation and sustainability. 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 237. DOI: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.117747 
Alexander, 
S. 
(2012) 
The 
Sufficiency 
Economy. 
Simplicity 
Institute. 
Available 
from: 
http://simplicityinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/TheSufficiencyEconomy3.pdf 
[Accessed 28th January 2022] 
Bocken, N., Mugge, R., Bon, C. A. & Lemstra, H.-J. (2018) Pay-per-use business models as a driver for 
sustainable consumption: Evidence from the case of HOMIE. Journal of Cleaner Production, 198, 498-
510. 
Bocken, N., Short, S. W., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice review to develop sustainable 
business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production, 65, 42-56. 
Bocken, N.M.P. (2015) Conceptual framework for shared value creation based on value mapping, Global 
Cleaner Production Conference, Sitges, Barcelona, 1-4 November 2015. 
Bocken, N. & Short, S. W. (2016) Towards a sufficiency-driven business model: Experiences and opportunities. 
Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, 18, 41-61. 
Bocken, N., Strupeit, L., Whalen, K. & Nussholz, J. (2019) A Review and Evaluation of Circular Business Model 
Innovation Tools. Sustainability, 11. 
Circular X. (2022) Case study database [Online]. Available: www.circularx.eu/en/cases [Accessed 28th January 
2022]. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D. & Evans, S. (2018) Sustainable business model innovation: A review. Journal 
of Cleaner Production, 198, 401-416. 
Kelly, M. (2012). Owning our future: the emerging ownership revolution: journeys to the generative economy. 
1st ed. San Francisco, CA, Berrett-Koehler Publishers. 
Luedeke-Freund, F., Gold, S. & Bocken, N. M. P. (2019) A Review and Typology of Circular Economy Business 
Model Patterns. Journal of Industrial Ecology, 23, 36-61. 
Meltzer, M. (2017) Patagonia and the North Face: saving the world – one puffer jacket at a time [Online]. 
Available: https://www.theguardian.com/business/2017/mar/07/the-north-face-patagonia-saving-
world-one-puffer-jacket-at-a-time [Accessed 24 March 2022]. 
Niessen, L. & Bocken, N. M. P. (2021). How can businesses drive sufficiency? The business for sufficiency 
framework. Sustainable Production and Consumption, 28, 1090-1103. 
Osterwalder, A. (2010) Business Model Generation: A Handbook for Visionaries, Game Changers, and 
Challengers. Hoboken, NJ, USA, Wiley. 
Persson, L., Carney Almroth, B. M., Collins, C. D., Cornell, S., De Wit, C. A., Diamond, M. L., Fantke, P., 
Hassellöv, M., Macleod, M., Ryberg, M. W., Søgaard Jørgensen, P., Villarrubia-Gómez, P., Wang, Z. & 
Hauschild, M. Z. (2022) Outside the Safe Operating Space of the Planetary Boundary for Novel 
Entities. Environmental Science & Technology. (20220118). doi: 10.1021/acs.est.1c04158. 
Pieroni, M. P. P., McAloone, T. C. & Pigosso, D. C. A. (2019) Business model innovation for circular economy 
and sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of Cleaner Production, 215, 198-216. 
Pisoni, A., Michelini, L. & Martignoni, G. (2018) Frugal approach to innovation: State of the art and future 
perspectives. Journal of Cleaner Production, 171, 107-126. 
Prabhu, J. (2017) Frugal innovation: doing more with less for more. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal 
Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, 375. 
Remane, G., Hanelt, A., Tesch, J. F. & Kolbe, L. M. (2017) The Business Model Pattern Database — a Tool for 
Systematic Business Model Innovation. International Journal of Innovation Management, 21. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
644 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Sandberg, M. (2021) Sufficiency transitions: A review of consumption changes for environmental 
sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 293. 
Spangenberg, J. H. & Lorek, S. (2019) Sufficiency and consumer behaviour: From theory to policy. Energy 
Policy, 129, 1070-1079. 
Steffen, W., Richardson, K., Rockstrom, J., Cornell, S. E., Fetzer, I., Bennett, E. M., Biggs, R., Carpenter, S. R., 
De Vries, W., De Wit, C. A., Folke, C., Gerten, D., Heinke, J., Mace, G. M., Persson, L. M., Ramanathan, 
V., Reyers, B. & Sorlin, S. (2015) Sustainability. Planetary boundaries: guiding human development 
on a changing planet. Science, 347, 1259855. 
Velenturf, A. P. M. & Purnell, P. (2021) Principles for a sustainable circular economy. Sustainable Production 
and Consumption, 27, 1437-1457. 
Velter, M. G. E., Bitzer, V. & Bocken, N. M. P. (2021) A Boundary Tool for Multi-stakeholder Sustainable 
Business Model Innovation. Circ Econ Sustain, 1-31. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
645 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Types of innovation strategy and 
implementation of various circular 
economy practices: findings from an 
empirical exploration  
 
Nabila Arfaoui1, Christian Le Bas1, Marie-France Vernier1, Linh-
Chi Vo1 
1Confluence Sciences and Humanities Research Center, 
UCLy - ESDES 
*clebas@univ-catholyon.fr 
 
Abstract 
This paper goes beyond the literature that argues for environmental innovation as an essential 
driver of the transition to a Circular Economy (CE). We do so by examining whether firms deploying 
specific innovation strategies are better placed to adopt this transition. We distinguish four basic 
Schumpeterian innovation strategies (product, process, single, complex innovation strategy) and 
three others (frugal, organizational, Business model innovation). Regarding the transition to the CE, 
we measure this movement by examining the adoption by the firms of five categories of circular 
practices in the Flash Eurobarometer survey, which have been used extensively in empirical studies. 
From the estimations of multivariate probit models, we find that having a product innovator 
strategy does not have much influence on the adoption of CE practices, while a process innovation 
strategy has slightly stronger impact. The most influential strategies are complex innovation and 
frugal innovation. Business Model innovation has an effect on the implementation of two among 
the five CE practices examined in this study. Overall, our study reveals the specific types of 
innovation strategies that are more impactful regarding the transition to the CE. 
Keywords  
Circular economy, Innovation, Business Model, Chemistry sector 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
646 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Digital technologies and frugality to 
tackle educational challenges at the 
Bottom of the Pyramid (BoP)  
Evidence from the OLPC case study 
Alessandra Corti1, Alessia Pisoni1*, Sameer Verma2 
1University of Insubria; 2San Francisco State University 
*alessia.pisoni@uninsubria.it  
Abstract 
International organizations are continuously stressing the importance of social inclusion in 
education for children at the Bottom of the Pyramid (BoP). Over the last few years, these 
organizations have revealed promising hope on the impact of digital technologies (the so-called 
ICT4E) in overcoming disparities around the world, especially when referring to inequalities in 
improving education opportunities. However, the process to achieve a successful implementation 
and diffusion of ICT4E appears to be a complex issue. Literature investigating ICT4E is scattered 
among different field of research (mainly social science and humanities, engineering, but also 
management and economics) and there is not a clear-cut picture on the specific factors that may 
affect the successful implementation of these technologies. We chose a single case study to 
investigate the proposed issue and contribute to the debate around “digital technologies for 
teaching and learning” at the BoP. The One Laptop per Child (OLPC) project was chosen for its 
unique characteristics of frugality, because of the proven potentials of frugal innovations to tackle 
resource constraints at the BoP. OLPC was conceived and developed at the MIT Media Lab and 
launched in 2005 with the aim to provide underprivileged primary school students with low-cost, 
low-power, durable and rugged laptop PCs. This case study reveals interesting results about the 
evolution of the project over the years and shows the factors that positively or negatively affected 
the overall project implementation, along with the main challenges to be faced while implementing 
digital technologies for teaching and learning at the BoP. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
647 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 2.6 - Sustainable Development, 
reporting and digital transformation  
Track Chairs: Anna Minà (LUMSA University) Gennaro 
Iasevoli (LUMSA University) 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
648 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Analyzing Business Model 
Components for a Care Platform: A 
Human-Centered Design Approach 
 
Jelena Bleja1* , Sara Neumann1, Tim Krüger1,  
Uwe Grossmann1 
1Faculty of Business Studies, IDiAL, University of Applied Sciences and 
Arts Dortmund, Germany 
*jelena.bleja@fh-dortmund.de  
Abstract 
Digitization and sustainability require new business models and problem-solving strategies concerning 
accompanying challenges. The development of new business models and the adaptation to new 
customer expectations could be a solution for growing challenges as well as a means to position digital 
services on the market. The human-centered design approach is applied to analyze several aspects of a 
successful business model in regards to a care platform. This makes it possible to examine new customer 
needs concerning care products and services. Therefore, following this approach, relevant business 
model structures of Osterwalder and Pigneur’s Business Model Canvas with regard to a care platform 
were analyzed. The paper shows relevant insights regarding possible customer groups, channels to 
address customers, the value proposition, and financing approaches for a care platform. 
Keywords  
Human-Centered-Design Approach, Care Platform, Business Models 
 
1 Introduction 
Digitization offers many opportunities for companies and projects and allows new forms of digital 
services to be created (Marquardt, 2017). Concerning areas like Internet of Things (IoT) and Ambient 
Assisted Living (AAL), new products and services emerge constantly, indicating a high level of innovation. 
On the other hand, this also means that the development of new business models and value propositions 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
649 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
is crucial (Ju, Kim & Ahn, 2016; O´Neill & Realinho, 2015). Despite the advantages, this also challenges 
companies, as the new markets are dynamic and changing rapidly. Additionally, competition in this area 
is high and new customer needs make a fast development of new services and business models 
necessary (Marquardt, Olaru & Ceausu, 2017). The main expectation of customers is a high quality of 
new services. Therefore, these services must positively influence customers’ satisfaction and experience 
(Marquardt, Olaru & Ceausu, 2017). To establish digital services and products successfully and 
sustainably on the market, innovative business models are relevant. 
However, not only in business model literature these opportunities and challenges become relevant. In 
the context of sustainability, and especially within social sustainability discussion, new business models 
– e.g. circular business models – are a new focus of research (Walker, Opferkuch, Roos Lindgreen, 
Simboli, Vermeulen & Raggi, 2021). Although social aspects, such as those addressed by a care platform, 
are considered highly relevant by companies, in practice there are still problems implementing social 
dimensions within circular business models – among others. Reasons for this are sought in their 
complexity and a lack of practical standards (Walker, Opferkuch, Roos Lindgreen, Simboli, Vermeulen & 
Raggi, 2021). 
To examine new business models within a socially sustainable context of a care platform, the human-
centered design approach is applied to capture the needs and wishes of stakeholders included in the 
development process of a care platform. This is currently the case in the joint project Smart Care 
Service17. In the project, a digital care platform that offers digital health and care services and products, 
therefore enabling people with assistant needs a flexible booking of tailor-made care services, is 
developed. With this kind of new digital service, the shortage of skilled workers can be tackled. In this 
paper, the aim is to apply the human-centered design approach to analyze certain structures of the 
Business Model Canvas by (Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010) in regards to a care platform.  
2 Human-Centered-Design Approach 
The Human-Centered Design Approach ist typically used to align user and stakeholder requirements for 
a product or service with the technical framework. The aim is to improve the development process of 
products and services and to prevent failures before the release of these services (Bleja, Krüger & 
Grossmann, 2022a; Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b; Tosi, 2020). The definition of human-
centered design in ISO standard 9241-210 (2019) is that it presents “an approach to system design and 
[a] development that aims to make interactive systems user-friendly by focusing on the system’s use 
and applying knowledge and techniques from the fields of human factors/ergonomics and usability” (ISO 
9241-210, 2019). 
The concept similar to the human-centered design approach is the user-centered design approach. 
Contrary to the human-centered design approach, users are not the only ones who are involved in the 
development processes. Other stakeholders who come into contact with the product or service can also 
be involved. In the case of a care platform, providers of products and services as well as, for example, 
health insurance companies, counseling centers, and other stakeholders can also be included. (Bleja, 
Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b; ISO 9241-210, 2019). 
 
17 The Smart Care Service project is funded by the EU and the state of North Rhine-Westphalia (EFRE.NRW) as part 
of the European funding program for regional development. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
650 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The human-centered design approach is mainly used in project management where user acceptance 
and usability are among the key aspects of the project’s sustainable success (Bleja, Krüger & Grossmann, 
2022a). The human-centered design approach differs from a reactive approach by focussing on the 
possible target group of products and services and designing their services to them. It is important to 
strive for a deeper understanding of these groups of people and their specific needs. Therefore, the 
product or service is to be developed interactively with possible future target groups and their perceived 
needs and demands. With this, the added value of a product or service can be emphasized within the 
process (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b; Staheli et al., 2016). 
The procedure of a human-centered design approach follows six principles. First, the development 
focusses on central stakeholders and the environment (Principle 1). For this purpose, these stakeholders 
are involved throughout the development phases (Principle 2). The design should be managed and 
optimized periodically (Principle 3). It is an interactive design process in which feedback loops, for 
example, are incorporated, since users often cannot formulate from the beginning how they specifically 
expect the result to be in the future (Principle 4). The design of the overall user experience should be 
addressed next to usability considerations (Principle 5). It is recommendable to gather a multidisciplinary 
project team to focus on multiple perspectives (Principle 6) (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 
2022b; ISO 9241-210, 2019). 
 
Figure 1: Human-Centered-Design Approach (Bleja, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022a; Bleja, Neumann, 
Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b; ISO 9241-210, 2019). 
There are four basic phases to the process as well, with the design of each phase matching a specific use 
or need. The first step is to analyze the context of use by collecting information about the needs of 
potential users and stakeholders. In this phase, information about the potential targe group is collected, 
needs are identified and the environment of implementation is analyzed. This can be done methodically, 
for example, by analyzing competitors and the target group, developing personas, and interviewing 
potential users (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). The following second step is to define 
the requirements for the product or service to be developed. Consequently, a first design or concept is 
created. Methodically, this can happen through visualisations, mock-ups, or a prototype that the target 
group evaluates. The following evaluation examines the extent to which the specifications have been 
covered and can be implemented in the second step. In an evaluation, it is also advisable to determine 
whether new requirements still need to be included and supplemented. For this, it is recommended to 
initiate group discussions or focus groups in which the target group discusses and evaluates prototypes 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
651 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
to support project teams in adapting concepts interactively and iteratively if necessary (Bleja, Neumann, 
Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b; ISO 9241-210, 2019; Staheli et al., 2016). 
The following section presents the methods that have been used to date as part of the human-centered 
development of a care platform regarding business models. These methods include qualitative and 
quantitative research such as competitor analysis, expert interviews, and a survey – following a mixed-
methods approach (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 
2.1 Competitor Analysis 
In the project, potential competitors of a care platform were identified and analyzed. The target of the 
analysis was to create an overview of which services already on the market exist in the area of care 
platforms. Furthermore, strengths and weaknesses of competitor platforms were compared, as well as 
their value propositions to users (Aragonés-Beltrán, García-Melón & Montesinos-Valera, 2017). To 
accomplish the aims a benchmark analysis according to Fleisher and Bensoussan (Fleisher & Bensoussan, 
2015) was carried out methodologically. For this, twelve – German – care platforms were analysed and 
selected based on their popularity. The platforms entered the market in the span of 2010 and 2015. The 
platforms were analyzed based on a criteria catalogue created in advance which consists of more than 
50 criteria from six topic areas in total, also focusing on business models. Specifically, different areas, 
such as the value proposition, the target groups, the channels selected for addressing customers, and 
the financing measures of the selected platforms were of interest. The data retrieved of the individual 
care platform was from their websites and other publications, such as press articles, reports or social 
media presences (Bleja, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022a; Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b; 
Nohl, 2017). 
2.2 Qualitative Analysis 
In the next step of the human-centered design approach, qualitative expert interviews were conducted 
based on the results of the competitor analysis. For this, service providers were interviewed. In expert 
interviews, it is possible to identify the stakeholders’ perceived wishes and needs as well as solution-
strategies. Especially important was identifying what added value the platform must offer compared to 
existing solutions for people with assistance needs and how the wishes of relatives and service providers 
can be considered as well. This affects not only the development phase of the care platform but also the 
choice of business model (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 
In conclusion, qualitative guideline-based expert interviews were conducted. In comparison to 
standardized or problem-centered interviews, expert interviews offer more openness, so that 
interviewees are encouraged to express their perspectives and contribute their ideas and expertise. In 
qualitative social science research, there are several different forms of guideline based interviews, many 
using the guide as a data collection tool and orientation. Based on the research project and the 
objectives it pursues, expert interviews were selected as the most appropriate method to achieve the 
research aims. The primary focus is not on the interviewees themselves, but on the experts representing 
their respective work backgrounds and expertise , e.g., as care providers, care consultants, providers of 
care, or care product supplier. (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b; Nohl, 2017). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
652 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The methodology for the guideline-based expert interviews was developed using the SSP principle of 
guideline development described by Helfferich (Helfferich, 2011, 2019). Following the development of 
the guideline, it was tested based on preliminary interviews with service providers. Within these 
preliminary tests, the guideline was further adapted and developed. The final guide consists of eight 
categories with a total of 32 questions (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 
The experts were selected to reflect the heterogeneity and complexity of the research field. Selective 
sampling was used rather than theoretical sampling given the limited duration of the research project. 
For this purpose, criteria were defined in advance as to which experts should be interviewed. Criteria 
included the following considerations: It was important that the experts were to come from as diverse 
a range of thematic areas as possible to include different viewpoints on the development of a care 
platform, and additionally be in contact with the target group, for example through a work-context. The 
interviews were mainly conducted in person at the experts’ offices. The interviews were recorded using 
a Dictaphone and with the consent of the experts. A data protection declaration based on the EU General 
Data Protection Regulation (EU-GDPR) was prepared for this purpose. In the end, 15 experts were 
interviewed (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). The experts represented the fields of 
nursing and social counseling, health and long-term care insurance, housing counseling, welfare 
associations, financial service providers, senior citizens’ representatives, and mail-order pharmacies and 
lasted between 45 and 90 minutes (Bleja, Wiewelhove, Kruger & Grossmann, 2021b, 2021a). Afterwards, 
the interviews were analyzed technically using the software MAXQDA and the content analysis of Gläser 
and Laudel (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b; Gläser & Laudel, 2010). 
2.3 Quantitative Analysis 
A quantitative survey of seniors and persons with assistant needs was conducted as qualitative surveys 
were not possible due to Covid restrictions. The survey was conducted with seniors over 50 years of age 
and in cooperation with the German Seniors’ League. The German Seniors’ League is a platform for 
elderly people to get information about various topics concerning higher age.  
The aim of the survey was to better understand the seniors that are potential future users of a care 
platform. For this, it was relevant to get to know their needs and specific wishes concerning elderly care 
and health care. With this knowledge, the platform can be developed in more concrete detail and 
adapted if necessary. Furthermore, channels to address future users could be identified through surveys 
(Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 
Topic-specific questions (a total of 20 questions) concerning health/ elderly care and assistance, digital 
consultations, and financing/ funding possibilities, as well as information channels were the keystones 
of the survey. The target-group of the survey were older people with assistant needs that use the 
internet in their daily lives. For this, and due to Covid restrictions, the survey was conducted virtually on 
the German Seniors’ League website (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 
In the end, 466 users were surveyed. Overall, 38.6% of these were male and 29.8% were female. 320 
persons - i.e. a total of 68.7% - answered the question about age. A majority of the respondents were 
71-80 years of age (38.8%). In addition, 26.3% were over 80 years of age or between 61-70 years of age 
(25.6%). Regarding their living situation, 63.9% reported being married and living in households of two 
(64.3%) (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
653 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
3 Business Models 
Business models serve as a tool to capture all relevant aspects that are important for the product or 
service to be marketed (Wirtz, Pistoia, Ullrich & Göttel, 2016). Even though there are several differing 
definitions of business models (Geissdoerfer, Vladimirova & Evans, 2018), business model structures, 
e.g. the Business Model Canvas (Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010) or different descriptions of business 
models by – among others – Björkdahl (Björkdahl, 2009), Chesbrough (Chesbrough, 2010), Teece (Teece, 
2010) and Zott and Amit (Zott & Amit, 2010), there are certain elements that unite these different 
understandings. These elements include customers, financing models, channels and the value 
proposition. As these elements are among the key-stones of a business model, they will be examined in 
more detail below (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 
3.1 Customers 
The analysis of existing care platforms has shown that they primarily target the customer group of 
relatives. Accordingly, the recipients of the services and products to be booked on the care platforms, 
are mostly not addressed as customers. Instead, the care platforms studied in Germany primarily target 
the children of persons with assistance needs as customers. However, during the qualitative expert 
interviews, the care advisors reported that the partners of persons with assistance needs often visit a 
counseling center or make use of counselling services as a first step. The results of the quantitative 
survey show that regardless of their age group, people with assistant needs who are active on the 
internet present potential future users for a digital care platform. These persons tend to use online 
services both for themselves and for relatives and also want to inform themselves about care topics 
mainly on the internet (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b).  
Based on the analyses and the findings of the current report of the Initiative D21 – indicating a rise in 
Internet competence of the elderly – the wishes of the included target group can be considered for the 
development of a care platform (Initiative D21 e. V., 2022). This could be a unique selling point of the 
care platform compared to existing care platforms and increase the acceptance of a care platform (Bleja, 
Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 
To describe the potential customer groups for a care platform, personas were developed. Each persona 
represents a potential user of a care platform. By describing personas, the business model can be better 
targeted on future users of a platform (Blaschke, Cigaina, Riss & Shoshan, 2017). To develop the 
personas, a scenario analysis was first carried out. The aim of this was to identify potential customer 
groups for a care platform (Bleja, Engelmann, Wiewelhove & Grossmann, 2021). The basic scenarios 
were derived empirically using data from the Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP, 2019). To create the 
scenarios, a two-step cluster analysis was selected as the most suitable method for the subject of the 
study (Bleja, Engelmann, Wiewelhove & Grossmann, 2021). This makes it possible to process very large 
amounts of data and different measurement and scale levels. In addition, in contrast to the hierarchical 
cluster method, it has the advantage that the corresponding classification algorithm can be predefined 
and the number of clusters does not have to be specified (Dolnicar, Grün & Leisch, 2018; Meyers, Gamst 
& Guarino, 2013). Building on the basic scenarios, the personas were described. In addition to broad 
literature research, the results of the qualitative expert interviews were used for this. In detail, the 
personas are five potential users of a care platform who have assistance needs themselves and three 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
654 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
users who use the platform for a family member in need of assistance, i.e. a partner or a parent. The 
personas differ in demographic characteristics such as gender, age, marital status, education level, and 
net income, but also their respective affinity for technology and internet use. The personas with 
assistance needs also differ in the extent of their limitations, their housing situation, and their social 
relationships. This results in different intentions for platform use. This ranges, for example, from booking 
services and products to make everyday life easier, to care, to provide security in old age and relieve the 
burden on caring relatives, to reducing loneliness and promoting the exchange of people with similar 
illnesses, limitations, or hobbies. The personas make it clear how diverse the intentions of potential 
users can be with regard to a care platform. This also affects the other areas of the business model, such 
as the value proposition, the channels of approach, and the customer relationship. The personas make 
the targeted group even more tangible (Blaschke, Cigaina, Riss & Shoshan, 2017; Pruitt & Grudin, 2003). 
This makes the development of a care platform and a suitable business model more targeted and user-
friendly right from the start. 
3.2 Channels 
The findings of the competitor analysis of different care platforms revealed that the platforms are 
advertised primarily by newspaper articles and television appearances. A total of 83% of the platforms 
use social media platforms as a channel. The usage of the platform through an app is currently offered 
by a quarter of the surveyed platforms (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b).  
As a result of the qualitative analysis, it emerged that word-of-mouth is a key factor and the most 
important channel for a care platform. The way this could be done is by spreading relevant information 
about the platform to senior groups, senior representatives, associations, clubs, health insurance 
companies, or private reference groups. Furthermore, articles in local, free newspapers, or national 
newspapers and magazines are a sufficient way to address the target group. Television and internet 
channels are suitable for addressing the target groups, such as Facebook, Instagram, Youtube, and online 
advertising networks for Internet advertising. Mailing campaigns could also generate a certain amount 
of reach. According to the respondents, the platform must be quickly suggested via online search 
engines, such as Google. For further inquiries, a telephone number and e-mail address must be easily 
found on the platform’s website (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 
In the quantitative survey conducted with the German Senior Citizens’ League, participants were asked, 
which information channels they use to stay informed about current health and care offerings. This 
showed that 57.5% of respondents use the Internet as a source of information. This is followed by care 
services and friends and family, each with 36.5%. Professionall offerings, such as care support points 
(24.2%), the home environment (11.6%), and the medical supply store (11.2%) are used as information 
channels by some of the respondents. Subsequently, the respondents rated the aforementioned 
information channels according to their significance. This revealed that 57.3 % of all participants and 
34.5 % of those aged 80 and over considered the Internet to be the primary source of information. This 
aligns with the findings of the Digital Index stating that older people become more internet-affine 
(Initiative D21 e. V., 2022). Family and friends, on the other hand, were rated as the most significant 
information channel by 30.1 % of respondents. The survey also allowed participants to indicate other 
information channels via a free-text field. Here, especially the following channels stand out: primary care 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
655 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
physicians, pharmacies, municipalities, television reports, free pharmacy magazines, colleagues, the 
community, and health insurance companies (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b).  
Specifically in the area of the high-age people, the study is not representative. This is also illustrated by 
the German Digital Index 2020/21, pointing out that 72% of the over-65’s are so-called “offliners” and 
thus do not actively use the Internet (Initiative D21 e. V., 2022). However, the target group of survey 
participants were primarily internet affine older people who are possible future users of the care 
platform and not the whole population. Therefore, the survey was also conducted online (Bleja, 
Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 
3.3 Value Proposition 
The value proposition is at the center of a business model and one of the most crucial parts when 
developing new business models. It is a reflection of the value or added value that customers achieve 
by purchasing a product or receiving a service (ISO 9241-210, 2019). The aim is to explore why 
prospective customers use the care platform from their perspective and how this consideration can be 
considered in development processes. 
The competitive analysis identified lacking areas of currently consisting platforms, such as advice on AAL 
systems, addressing older target groups, and app usage. This is also mirrored in the further analyses. In 
qualitative analysis, respondents described those platforms as “inadequate”. In the quantitative survey 
many respondents were not aware of any care platforms that meet their expectations (Bleja, Neumann, 
Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 
The surveyed providers anticipate that a platform will add value for them primarily by simplifying 
organizational, bureaucratic, and billing work, enabling formalities and applications to be processed 
quickly and transparently, and cooperating with other service providers in the case of care shortages 
due to illness. Potential users hope a care platform would make it easier for them to get access tailor-
made information and care services. They expect a platform that helps them decide for a product or 
care service. In addition, the platform should promote opportunities for exchange and communication 
with people nearby or with similar assistance or care needs (Bleja, Neumann, Krüger & Grossmann, 
2022b; Zolnowski & Böhmann, 2013) 
Concluding the findings, the added value for customers is a basis for financing models and approaches 
for a care platform. The more value the care platform generates for providers and users, the more are 
they willing to pay for these services (van Hoof, Kazak, Perek-Białas & Peek, 2018)(Bleja, Neumann, 
Krüger & Grossmann, 2022b). 
3.4 Financing Models 
For the analysis of financing models, qualitative expert interviews are consulted once more. The 
interviewees of the qualitative analysis believed that the prices for persons with assistance needs as well 
as their relatives should be kept as low as possible. At best, the platform should even be free to use. The 
result is also reflected in the analysis of other care platforms, which are all free of charge for users. Some 
respondents to the qualitative research also stated that it was common for service providers to pay a 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
656 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
small annual fee depending on, for example, annual turnover. In addition, commission models could be 
considered as financing models.  
Other financing options addressed during the interviews included public funding, subsidies from private 
or statutory insurers (long-term care, pension, and accident insurance), the digitization fund of the 
statutory health insurance, and financing via advertisements. In terms of advertising, however, some of 
the interviewees advised not to place too much advertising so as not to raise any doubts about the 
independence of the platform. Interestingly, experts assess the financing of a care platform as the most 
challenging – yet most important – aspect. 
Based on literature analysis, a variety of other financing options for a care platform could be identified 
in addition to the financing options already mentioned for the platform via commercial advertising (e.g., 
in the form of banner ads) and via contributions from users (subscriptions) or providers (offer fees, 
brokerage, and sales provision). For example, it could also be suitable for a care platform to use a so-
called freemium model (Grothus, Thesing & Feldmann, 2021a; Li, Nan & Li, 2020). In this case, the basic 
version of the platform is offered to users free of charge so that they can try it out first. If needed, users 
can additionally subscribe to a paid premium version, which provides them with further benefits. In 
addition, revenue could be generated through the collection and processing of user data by using it 
internally or passing it on to third parties (leverage customer data) (Grothus, Thesing & Feldmann, 
2021a). However, financing the platform by selling data was considered critical by the interviewees in 
the qualitative analysis conducted. 
Pay-per-use models could also be considered for the use of certain services by users, such as consulting, 
or by providers, such as customer data management. Accordingly, payment would be based on the pure 
duration of use of certain services (Wirtz & Ullrich, 2008; Grothus, Thesing & Feldmann, 2021a). 
In addition, financing through donations, subsidies from health and long-term care insurers, and local 
authorities could be considered. In this context, social impact bonds could also be conceivable as 
financing models. Social impact bonds are cooperative ventures in which one or more social service 
providers, charitable foundations, or private investors and the state participate. The target group, the 
goal, the key success criteria and the financial framework are contractually defined in advance. In the 
first step, the investors or foundations provide financing. If the agreed targets are achieved, the state 
assumes the costs and, if applicable, also a target achievement premium payment (Fölster, 2017; Hulse, 
Atun, McPake & Lee, 2021; Katz, Brisbois, Zerger & Hwang, 2018; Wilson, Silva & Ricardson, 2015). 
In addition to grants and donations, crowdfunding is also an option for developing and building the 
platform (Wirtz & Ullrich, 2008; Grothus, Thesing & Feldmann, 2021a). For example, the platform 
Recare, which is also active in the healthcare sector, secured part of its funding via crowdfunding 
(Thieme Verlag, 2021). In crowdfunding, a product or project is financed by a large number of investors. 
If a predefined budget is achieved, then the project is realized (Wirtz & Ullrich, 2008; Grothus, Thesing 
& Feldmann, 2021a). 
Grothus, Thesing and Feldmann, conclude that innovative business models are often characterized by a 
combination of different financing and revenue models (Grothus, Thesing & Feldmann, 2021b). 
Therefore, financing models are crucial for a business model but also a main challenge and concern 
(Bleja, Wiewelhove, Kruger & Grossmann, 2021b). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
657 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
This is, among other things, because many apps and websites are for free (Scherenberg, 2015). 
Accordingly, the willingness to spend money on this is low. In addition, the demand for care services in 
Germany is higher than the supply (Jacobs, Kuhlmey, Greß, Klauber & Schwinger, 2021). This means, 
service providers are not forced to present themselves on care platforms as they have enough patients 
and are less willing to spend money for a presence on an online platform. Consequently, the willingness 
of providers of products and services to spend money for a presence on an online platform is also rather 
low. This makes it crucial to identify their added value concerning a care platform. Only if the users and 
providers have visible added value through the platform does this have a positive effect on their 
willingness to pay. 
4 Conclusion 
A competitor analysis, as well as expert interviews, a survey, and a scenario analysis, were conducted 
within the framework of the human-centered design approach. A human-centered design approach was 
chosen to determine the added value (new digital services and products) received by a care platform. 
For this, people with assistant needs, their relatives, and care service providers were the main target 
group of the human-centered design approach. 
This paper analyzed selected business model structures following the Business Model Canvas by 
Osterwalder and Pigneur. Structures, such as the value proposition, channels, and customer relationship 
were analyzed with the human-centered design approach in mind. 
In conclusion, people with assistant needs and their relatives as well as care service providers assess a 
care platform as useful and facilitating everyday life. Questions on how to finance care services through 
a care platform are important for potential users and a future challenge for platform providers. It is 
recommended to combine different financing options to sustainably implement a care platform on the 
market. With the help of the developed personas, potential customer groups and their lifeworlds and 
needs could be described.  
However, not only were the customer relationships and channels relevant for successful implementation 
in the market. The development of new business models creates an opportunity for customer inclusion 
and new measurements that prevent people with assistant needs from being undersupplied. The 
inclusion of customers is possible and advisable within the human-centered design approach, thus 
contributing to diverse care offerings and an increase in life quality.  
Current research includes an even more intense application of the human-centered design approach. 
People with assistant needs and their relatives will evaluate a mock-up of a care platform within 
workshops. The focus group method centralizing on the needs and impressions of the target group to 
further develop a socially sustainable care platform will be applied. In addition, the human-centered 
design approach is used to determine concerns regarding data security issues with the help of expert 
interviews. For this, data protection officers are consulted to develop a human-centered data usage 
concept. 
References 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
658 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Aragonés-Beltrán, P., García-Melón, M.& Montesinos-Valera, J. (2017) How to assess stakeholders' influence in 
project management? A proposal based on the Analytic Network Process, International Journal of Project 
Management, 35(3), pp. 451–462. doi: 10.1016/j.ijproman.2017.01.001. 
Björkdahl, J. (2009) Technology cross-fertilization and the business model: The case of integrating ICTs in 
mechanical 
engineering 
products, 
Research 
Policy, 
38(9), 
pp. 1468–1477. 
doi: 10.1016/j.respol.2009.07.006. 
Blaschke, M., Cigaina, M., Riss, U.V.& Shoshan, I. (2017) Designing Business Models for the Digital Economy, in 
Oswald, G. and Kleinemeier, M. (eds.) Shaping the digital enterprise: Trends and use cases in digital 
innovation and transformation. Switzer land: Springer, pp. 121–136. 
Bleja, J., Engelmann, L., Wiewelhove, D.& Grossmann, U. (2021) Smart Care in Smart Cities - Scenario Analysis for 
an Innovative Care Platform, 2021 11th IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Data Acquisition and 
Advanced Computing Systems: Technology and Applications (IDAACS), 2021 11th IEEE International 
Conference on Intelligent Data Acquisition and Advanced Computing Systems: Technology and 
Applications (IDAACS), Cracow, Poland: IEEE, pp. 657–662. doi: 10.1109/IDAACS53288.2021.9661023. 
Bleja, J., Wiewelhove, D., Kruger, T.& Grossmann, U. (2021a) Networking in Smart Cities: Qualitative Analysis for 
the Demand-Oriented Development of a Care Platform.2021 IEEE European Technology and Engineering 
Management Summit (E-TEMS), pp. 122–126. 
Bleja, J., Wiewelhove, D., Kruger, T.& Grossmann, U. (2021b) Achieving Life in Smart Cities: Chances and Challenges 
for a Holistic Care Platform.2021 IEEE European Technology and Engineering Management Summit (E-
TEMS), pp. 72-75. 
Bleja, J., Krüger, T.& Grossmann, U. (2022a) Development of a Holistic Care Platform - A User-Centered Approach, 
in Ahram, T. and Taiar, R. (eds.) Human Interaction, Emerging Technologies and Future Systems V. (Lecture 
Notes in Networks and Systems, 319). Cham: Springer International Publishing, pp. 378–385. 
Bleja, J., Neumann, S., Krüger, T.& Grossmann, U. (2022b) A Human-Centered Design Approach for the 
Development of a Digital Care Platform in a Smart City Environment: Implication for Business Models, 
ACM Web Conference 2022, 8. International Workshop on Web and Smart Cities (WebAndTheCity 2022). 
Available at: in print. 
Chesbrough, H. (2010) Business Model Innovation: Opportunities and Barriers, Long Range Planning, 43(2-3), 
pp. 354–363. doi: 10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.010. 
Dolnicar, S., Grün, B.& Leisch, F. (2018) Market segmentation analysis.Understanding it, doing it, and making it 
useful. (Management for professionals). Singapore: Springer Open. 
Fleisher, C.S.& Bensoussan, B.E. (2015) Business and competitive analysis.Effective application of new and classic 
methods. 2nd edn. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson. 
Fölster, 
S. 
(2017) 
Viral 
mHealth, 
Global 
Health 
Action, 
10(sup3), 
p. 1336006. 
doi: 10.1080/16549716.2017.1336006. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D.& Evans, S. (2018) Sustainable business model innovation: A review, Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 198, pp. 401–416. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.240. 
Gläser, J.& Laudel, G. (2010) Experteninterviews und qualitative Inhaltsanalyse als Instrumente rekonstruierender 
Untersuchungen. 4th edn. Wiesbaden: VS Verlag für Sozialwissenschaften. 
Grothus, A., Thesing, T.& Feldmann, C. (2021a) Geschäftsmodell-Innovationen im Bereich Mixed Reality, in 
Grothus, A., Thesing, T. and Feldmann, C. (eds.) Digitale Geschäftsmodell-Innovation mit Augmented 
Reality und Virtual Reality. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, pp. 53–75. 
Grothus, A., Thesing, T.& Feldmann, C. (2021b) Geschäftsmodell-Innovationen: Wert für den Kunden und Erträge 
für das Unternehmen, in Grothus, A., Thesing, T. and Feldmann, C. (eds.) Digitale Geschäftsmodell-
Innovation mit Augmented Reality und Virtual Reality. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 
pp. 43–51. 
Helfferich, C. (2011) Die Qualität qualitativer Daten: Manual für die Durchführung qualitativer Interviews. 4th edn. 
Wiesbaden: VS Verlag für Sozialwissenschaften. 
Helfferich, C. (2019) Leitfaden- und Experteninterviews, in Baur, N. and Blasius, J. (eds.) Handbuch Methoden der 
empirischen Sozialforschung. Wiesbaden: Springer Fachmedien, pp. 669–684. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
659 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Hulse, E.S.G., Atun, R., McPake, B.& Lee, J.T. (2021) Use of social impact bonds in financing health systems 
responses to non-communicable diseases: scoping review, BMJ Global Health, 6(3). doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-
2020-004127. 
Initiative 
D21 
e. 
V. 
(2022) 
D21-Digital-Index 
2021/2022 
- 
Jährliches 
Lagebild 
zur 
Digitalen 
Gesellschaft.Vertiefungsthema: Digitale Nachhaltigkeit. Available at: https://initiatived21.de/app/
uploads/2022/02/d21-digital-index-2021_2022.pdf (Accessed: 12 April 2022). 
ISO 9241-210 (2019) Ergonomics of human-system interaction - Part 210: Human-centred design for interactive 
systems: ISO/TC 159/SC 4, Edition 2. 
Jacobs, K., Kuhlmey, A., Greß, S., Klauber, J.& Schwinger, A. (2021) Pflege-Report 2021. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer 
Berlin Heidelberg. 
Ju, J., Kim, M.-S.& Ahn, J.-H. (2016) Prototyping Business Models for IoT Service, Procedia Computer Science, 91, 
pp. 882–890. doi: 10.1016/j.procs.2016.07.106. 
Katz, A.S., Brisbois, B., Zerger, S.& Hwang, S.W. (2018) Social Impact Bonds as a Funding Method for Health and 
Social Programs: Potential Areas of Concern, American Journal of Public Health, 108(2), pp. 210–215. 
doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2017.304157 
Li, Z., Nan, G.& Li, M. (2020) Advertising or Freemium: The Impacts of Social Effects and Service Quality on 
Competing Platforms, IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 67(1), pp. 220–233. 
doi: 10.1109/TEM.2018.2871420. 
Marquardt, K. (2017) Smart services – characteristics, challenges, opportunities and business models, Proceedings 
of the International Conference on Business Excellence, 11(1), pp. 789–801. doi: 10.1515/picbe-2017-
0084. 
Marquardt, K., Olaru, M.& Ceausu, I. (2017) Study on the Development of Quality Measurements Models for 
Steering Business Services in Relation to Customer Satisfaction, Amfiteatru Economic, 19(44), pp. 95–109. 
Meyers, L.S., Gamst, G.C.& Guarino, A.J. (2013) Performing Data Analysis Using IBM SPSS. (EBL-Schweitzer). 
Hoboken: Wiley. Available at: http://site.ebrary.com/lib/alltitles/docDetail.action?docID=10734309. 
Nohl, A.-M. (2017) Narrativ fundierte Interviews, in Nohl, A.-M. (ed.) Interview und Dokumentarische Methode. 
Wiesbaden: Springer Fachmedien, pp. 15–28. 
O´Neill, H.& Realinho, J.D. (2015) A Business Model for Ambient Assisted Living Solutions, in Garcia, N.M. and 
Rodrigues, J. (eds.) Ambient assisted living. (Rehabilitation science in practice series). Boca Raton: CRC 
Press, Taylor & Francis Group, pp. 436–454. 
Osterwalder, A.& Pigneur, Y. (2010) Business Model Generation.A Handbook for Visionaries, Game Changers, and 
Challengers. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons Incorporated. 
Pruitt, J.& Grudin, J. (2003) Personas, Proceedings of the 2003 conference on Designing for user experiences, the 
2003 conference, San Francisco, California, 6/6/2003 - 6/7/2003. New York, New York, USA: ACM Digital 
Library, p. 1. doi: 10.1145/997078.997089. 
Scherenberg, V. (2015) Qualitätsaspekte von Gesundheits-Apps: Wie lässt sich Qualität erkennen?, Public Health 
Forum, 23(3), pp. 144–146. doi: 10.1515/pubhef-2015-0053. 
Socio-Economic Panel (SOEP) (2019) data for years 1984-2017.versio 34. 
Staheli, D., Mancuso, V., Harnasch, R., Fulcher, C., Chmielinski, M., Kearns, A., Kelly, S., Vuksani E. (2016) 
Collaborative Data Analysis and Discovery for Cyber Security, Twelfth Symposium on Usable Privacy and 
Security (SOUPS 2016), Twelfth Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security (SOUPS 2016). Available at: 
https://www.usenix.org/conference/soups2016/workshop-program/wsiw16/presentation/staheli. 
Teece, D.J. (2010) Business Models, Business Strategy and Innovation, Long Range Planning, 43(2-3), pp. 172–194. 
doi: 10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.003. 
Thieme Verlag (2021) Digitales Entlassmanagement – Recare erhält Finanzierung in Höhe von zwei Millionen Euro, 
Gesundheitsökonomie & Qualitätsmanagement, 26(01), pp. 23–24. doi: 10.1055/a-1347-6134. 
Tosi, F. (2020) From User-Centred Design to Human-Centred Design and the User Experience, in Tosi, F. (ed.) Design 
for Ergonomics. (Springer Series in Design and Innovation, 2). Cham: Springer International Publishing, 
pp. 47–59. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
660 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
van Hoof, J., Kazak, J.K., Perek-Białas, J.M.& Peek, S.T.M. (2018) The Challenges of Urban Ageing: Making Cities 
Age-Friendly in Europe, International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, 15(11). 
doi: 10.3390/ijerph15112473. 
Walker, A.M., Opferkuch, K., Roos Lindgreen, E., Simboli, A., Vermeulen, W.J.& Raggi, A. (2021) Assessing the social 
sustainability of circular economy practices: Industry perspectives from Italy and the Netherlands, 
Sustainable Production and Consumption, 27, pp. 831–844. doi: 10.1016/j.spc.2021.01.030. 
Wilson, K.E., Silva, F.& Ricardson, D. (2015) Social Impact Investment: Building the Evidence Base. 
Wirtz, B.W.& Ullrich, S. (2008) Geschäftsmodelle im Web 2.0 — Erscheinungsformen, Ausgestaltung und 
Erfolgsfaktoren, HMD Praxis der Wirtschaftsinformatik, 45(3), pp. 20–31. doi: 10.1007/BF03341209. 
Wirtz, B.W., Pistoia, A., Ullrich, S.& Göttel, V. (2016) Business Models: Origin, Development and Future Research 
Perspectives, Long Range Planning, 49(1), pp. 36–54. doi: 10.1016/j.lrp.2015.04.001. 
Zolnowski, A.& Böhmann, T. (2013) Veränderungstreiber service-orientierter Geschäftsmodelle, in Böhmann, T., 
Warg, M. and Weiß, P. (eds.) Service-orientierte Geschäftsmodelle. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin 
Heidelberg, pp. 31–52. 
Zott, C.& Amit, R. (2010) Business Model Design: An Activity System Perspective, Long Range Planning, 43(2-3), 
pp. 216–226. doi: 10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.004. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
661 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Digital ecological business models of 
enterprises created by energy clusters 
 
Adam Jabłoński1,* Marek Jabłoński1 
1WSB University in Poznań, Powstańców Wielkopolskich 5, 61-895 
Poznań, Poland 
*adam.jablonski@ottima-plus.com.pl;  
Abstract 
The overlapping economic, social, ecological, health and military crises create new spaces for scientific 
research that can be applied in practice. This applies in particular to the mechanisms of strategic 
management, together with the construction of sophisticated business models. Their modern design is 
shaped from this cognitive perspective, with the use of layered, step and area-based design. The crucial 
problem addressed in the article concerns the construction of an optimal configuration of digital 
ecological business models created by developed energy clusters which support the positive impact on 
dynamic climate change. The aim of the article is to present assumptions for the effective and efficient 
management of digital ecological business models created by energy clusters to create positive climate 
change. The scope of the article concerns research into the place and role of energy clusters as a 
platform for building effective and efficient digital ecological business models which shape the positive 
impact on climate change. The research subject is focused on identifying core factors, layers and logic 
for designing digital ecological business models, together with their appropriate network configuration 
to ensure a positive impact on climate change. The article uses qualitative research by means of 
comparative analysis and network analysis to determine the factors, layers and logic of digital business 
models. Another result of the article is the strategic recommendations and scientific postulates used to 
apply the solutions adopted in the publication. 
Keywords  
Digital ecological business models, energy clusters, climate change, network analyses. 
 
Introduction 
The ongoing negative dynamics of climate change have triggered the strong need for a change in the 
core priorities of the global economy. An important re-evaluation of the principles and logic of 
understanding and running a business towards a society-friendly business and its changing needs is 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
662 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
required. The current possibilities of operating in a safe and healthy environment are increasingly 
limited. This results, inter alia, from overlapping economic, social, ecological, health and military crises, 
which need to be managed in a systemic way and for which new business models have to be created 
(Ritter & Pedersen, 2020a; Seetharaman, 2020). From this cognitive perspective, a new, appropriate 
approach to constructing business models (Teece, 2017) is at the forefront as a core ontological entity 
that determines the mechanisms of strategic management of enterprises with a strong focus on scalable 
sustainable business models open to a wide range of stakeholders who operate in the real and virtual 
economy (Jabłoński, 2016). This refers to the entire life cycle adopted for business models (Jabłoński & 
Jabłoński, 2016). This also requires other assumptions and paradigm changes. A different value 
proposition and a different income generation logic using optimal resources, together with their 
appropriate allocation, should constitute new assumptions for determining the logic of the proper 
configuration of business models of enterprises. A crucial factor nowadays is the skillful achievement of 
a compromise of companies’ economic, social and environmental effects through digital business 
models (Jabłoński & Jabłoński, 2020). At the same time, the multidimensional digital transformation in 
various areas of social activity has opened up new spaces for the development of digital business models 
and the monetization thereof (Jabłoński & Jabłoński, 2021). In this context, opportunities have also 
emerged for an open organizational and technological struggle against strong climate change affecting 
numerous areas of human existence (Hewitt & Stone, 2021). This requires the definition and 
categorization of a whole range of climate improvement services (Alexander & Dessai, 2019). It is 
important to implement them by means of business models (Larosa & Mysiak, 2020). This has led to a 
clear need, in many cases, to build digital innovation-based ecological business models (Bocken & 
Geradts, 2020). The platform for their development can be energy clusters based on the network 
paradigm as network structures for the construction of a modern energy economy based on the use of 
green energy production technologies and resource efficiency. Network analysis and network dynamics 
generate an optimal network effect, the source of which is the collection of multiple data inspired by 
the creation of many business models in the network (Scott, 2012). In this context, a close link between 
climate improvement services and services for the construction of new energy resources emerges (Fell, 
2017). The energy cluster is based on the generation of various types of energy, which is the foundation 
of its business activity and a further starting point for the remaining activity in the economic field, i.e. 
energy distribution or trading. It should be noted that energy clusters are mainly initiatives with limited 
territorial scope; therefore, the basic strategic objectives of the clusters are defined on the basis of local 
needs that determine the development of such initiatives. As such, they are an appropriate tool for 
improving the energy efficiency of regions (Swart et al., 2021) taking innovative solutions into account 
by changing the choice of energy supply through the use of renewable energy sources (RES) (Hill & Engel-
Cox, 2017). It should be pointed out that creating an appropriate regulatory, administrative and 
economic environment for energy producers (including in the context of financial support for the 
implementation of investments) is crucial to making the right investment decisions which the creation 
of energy clusters and the further development and efficient functioning of energy clusters, which will 
be the basis for these sources, will depend on. The crucial problem addressed in the article concerns the 
construction of an optimal configuration of digital ecological business models created by developed 
energy clusters which support the positive impact on dynamic climate change. The aim of the article is 
to present assumptions for the effective and efficient management of digital ecological business models 
created by energy clusters to create positive climate change. The scope of the article concerns research 
into the place and role of energy clusters as a platform for building effective and efficient digital 
ecological business models which shape the positive impact on climate change. The research subject is 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
663 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
focused on identifying core factors, layers and logic for designing digital ecological business models, 
together with their appropriate network configuration to ensure a positive impact on climate change. 
The article uses qualitative research by means of comparative analysis and network analysis to 
determine the factors, layers and logic of digital business models. Another result of the article is the 
strategic recommendations and scientific postulates used to apply the solutions adopted in the 
publication. 
1. Digital ecological business models - the perspective of 
new business spaces in the changing economy  
The ongoing changes in the economy caused by different types of critical situations are changing the 
current logic of doing business in many cases. This is also influenced by the changing organizational 
context resulting from the evolving new dimension of the ecosystem, the aim of which should be 
development on the basis of the principles of sustainable, digital entrepreneurship in which businesses 
operate (Gregori & Holzmann, 2020). This has a particularly strong impact on, and is of particular 
importance to, the design and application of new digital business models of different types of 
organizations (Ritter & Pedersen, 2020b). Nowadays, this particularly concerns the so-called intelligent 
digital transformation (Zaoui & Souissi, 2020; Verhoef et al., 2021) and climate transformation, which 
dynamically triggers new perspectives for creating creative business models with a strong technological 
orientation (Baden-Fuller & Haefliger, 2013) in a constructive comparison between digital 
transformation and climate transition. Digital strategies with a clear market orientation (Kindermann et 
al., 2021; Morton, Wilson & Cooke, 2020) and long-term adaptation plans (Liu, Tong & Sinfield, 2021) to 
climate change (Arslan et al., 2021) implemented through business models (Rochlin, 2021) towards, 
among other things, the climate neutrality of Europe’s economy, are a factor in the strong utilitarianism 
of the solutions adopted in the current platform for shaping today’s business models. It should be noted 
that each business model of an enterprise has its own specific features based on its core attributes and 
opens up a significant number of new development prospects (Wirtz et al., 2016). In the event of the 
recent pandemic and climate crises, the digital business models of enterprises are particularly 
important. This interesting design of a network-configured business model fulfilled the expectations of 
various groups of business network actors (Jiang & Li, 2020) and social groups focused around creating 
a new business space in the socio-technological system of the economic environment (Frankenberger, 
Weiblen & Gassmann, 2013; Redondo, 2015). Trust, including digital trust, is undoubtedly a connecting 
factor between these groups of network actors (Jeong & Oh, 2017; Justwan, Bakker & Berejikian, 2018). 
Specific value drivers in terms of social values created by business models (Spieth et al., 2019) are of 
particular importance. The business model as a specific configuration of tangible and intangible assets 
concentrated in the enterprise, meets the expectations of green stakeholders who understand modern 
climate risks (Bleda & Shackley, 2008) while taking the strong digital development based on intelligent 
digital technologies into account. The core objective of the business model of enterprises is then aimed 
at a specific, well-defined, delivered value proposition for customers who understand climate problems, 
who will want to receive this value proposition without a carbon footprint (Rosenstock et al., 2020). It is 
also determined by the accepted income generation logic within business models using, for example, 
the carbon neutral delivery methodology and circular economy assumptions throughout the green 
supply chain cycle. As a result, a unique mix of aggregate values is created in the configuration of the 
applied business model of the enterprise developed by managers by means of a comprehensive 
component approach in the network structure (Kulins, Leonardy & Weber, 2016). The architecture of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
664 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
such business models is equipped with an aspect that generates ecological, energy and climate factors. 
In addition, based on the system and network paradigm, it should highlight the critical components 
which are specific to digital and climate strategy (Paul, Lang & Baumgartner, 2017), as the organization 
implements a digital ecological business model through these two dedicated strategies. In this design-
analytical process it is important to determine specific functions and performance for these components 
and for the entire architecture of business models, which determine the results of the organization 
specified by managers in economic and social terms as an outcome of an effective and efficient business 
model. Not only does such a way of thinking generate a competitive advantage at the level of market 
competition, but it also creates a multidimensional social effect (Dohrmann, Raith & Siebold, 2015) using 
specific ecological, energy and climate criteria. 
2. Intelligent digital and climate transformation - the 
dimension of business models 
The current changes in the economy could even be described as surprising. They are related, among 
other things, to the dual issues of digital and climate transformation. As a result, they affect a wide range 
of factors that shape the modern dimension of economies around the world. This requires a significant 
increase in new technologies created by investments and innovations. This two-dimensional intelligent 
transformation creates knowledge-rich new products, services, markets and business models. The 
source of such a process lies in emerging new types of jobs that require unique skills that we do not yet 
have; indeed, sometimes we do not even realize that they are already required. At the same time, this 
transformation requires a change in the logic of the functioning of the economy from the current linear 
economy to the circular economy (Manninen et al., 2018). In order to achieve this, so-called open 
strategic autonomy is necessary through the self-development of core digital technologies, digital 
sectors and green value chains based on intelligent digital transformation. The multidimensional 
restoration of ecosystems and biodiversity and the sustainable management of natural resources are 
becoming important. Then a path towards a broad development of a climate-neutral and sustainable 
digital circular economy will emerge. The result of this approach will be the creation of a more resilient, 
citizen-led and democratic knowledge-based society, based on the dynamics of development and 
intelligent growth. Key to such results are extended circular value chains based on green order 
(European Commission), waste-free production, the valorization of waste streams, industrial symbiosis, 
circularity hubs, modern technologies for recycling, re-use, the elimination of fossil fuels, both as a 
source of energy and chemical raw material, the hydrogenation and electrification of production and 
processes, making industrial processes more flexible, adapting to variable energy supply (RES use), and 
the valorization of CO/CO2 streams. As a result, there is a focus on the development and implementation 
of climate-neutral solutions, together with closing the flow of energy, materials and water streams to 
achieve a leading position in the process industry. The supporting factor strengthens innovation and 
public-private investments. Then a coherent system may emerge based on created symbiosis, symmetry 
and industrial-urban synergies, taking into account the concept of the smart city, which will result in an 
exponential change in the circular use of resources and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the 
designated region. In addition, the increased flexibility of technological processes with regard to changes 
in energy supply that enable the integration of variable energy sources, i.e. RES, including regional ones 
with the use of energy storage and conversion processes, plays a significant role in shaping intelligent 
digital transformation. A platform for constructive comparison between digital development and 
climate change-enhancing actions is, inter alia, new production and manufacturing technologies such as 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
665 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
zero defect production, reuse and remanufacturing, and digital technologies (AI, Data, Robotics) to 
manage circular value chains in production and service processes. This is supported by multidisciplinary 
material design processes by means of the safe and sustainable by design strategy, eco-design, plastic 
manufacturing recyclable by design technologies, new chemical processes based on new catalysts and 
electrification, the use of RES, and short-term and long-term hydrogen storage technologies. All this 
requires broad support for an innovative community acting for the development and deployment of 
technologies for the production of fuels and chemicals using solar, wind and biofuels. The result of this 
approach will be the so-called crop of new innovative, creative business models as a result of the 
implementation of the principles of intelligent digital and climate transformation in the economy. 
3. A cluster as a specific network open to the digital and 
climate development of enterprises 
The new dimension of running a business in a period of social, economic, political, climate, health, 
immigration, and military crises generates new needs and new solutions that should be implemented 
by organizations that want not only to survive, but above all to ensure their development while also 
being resilient in the face of the abovementioned crises (Tauscher & Abdelkafi, 2018). Therefore, the 
specific resilience of these entities should be firmly embedded in a properly captured and well 
understood strategic perspective (Niemimaa et al., 2019; Ramezani & Camarinha-Matos, 2020). In this 
respect, the path is opening up the search for the best possible and economically optimal business 
principles. Such a solution may be to spontaneously create specific technology networks in specific 
industrial conditions or to participate in cluster structures located in multi-dimensional and multi-criteria 
network analysis (Bankvall, Dubois & Lind, 2017). The resulting network effect determines the growth 
and development of the entire cluster network as well as individual organizations that create it. In 
addition, the often industrial, technological nature of clusters embedded in a given sector with certain 
dynamics and specific features creates a source of unique value for their participants (Tase, 2019). In 
this context, the sector is naturally supported by the potential for a highly-implemented intelligent 
digital transformation and the knowledge required to build systems for adaptation to climate change 
(ISO 14090:2019) and the necessity for the development of new energy needs (ISO 50001:2018) as part 
of changes in the use of traditional energy for renewable energy sources (ISO/IEC 13273-1:2016). It is 
also worth adding that the energy sector is changing dynamically through the use of a variety of digital 
solutions for both operational, interactive technical systems related to electricity generation and 
transmission and highly developed cyber security management in circumstances of strong threats posed 
by potential cyber and/or terrorist attacks. It is therefore crucial to develop a multidimensional business 
model for the effective and efficient management of the region’s energy potential in order for it to 
achieve full energy self-sufficiency. 
4. An energy cluster as a new tool for the development of 
climate-responsible businesses in the digital economy 
When conducting a multidimensional analysis of cluster structures, it should be noted that the proposed 
and inferred cluster models currently focus not only on the arrangement of entities expressed by the 
inclusion of further entities as part of increasing the size and density of the cluster mainly within its main 
substantive line expressed by sectoral circumstances. An energy cluster is specific, and its main objective 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
666 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
is to develop and exploit the region’s energy potential in order to achieve energy self-sufficiency with 
the use of green energy, i.e. energy from renewable energy sources. It is area-based, and a strategic 
factor therein is the production of social values for a given region (Tello, 2020). The objective of energy 
clusters is therefore to develop distributed energy. They aim for the strong improvement of local energy 
security in such a way as to achieve economic efficiency that provides optimal organizational, legal and 
financial conditions in an environmentally friendly manner.  
Energy clusters also enable the use of local, specific resources and national energy potential. They also 
foster the deployment of state-of-the-art innovative technologies where they are justified, i.e. useful to 
the local community and economically viable. These objectives may be direct, namely the self-sufficiency 
of the energy system, the increased share of RES in the energy balance, the reduced energy consumption 
of the urban economy, and the development of distributed energy sources. 
They may also be indirect, namely the development of new business models, energy security, 
independence from an external fuel supply, investment attractiveness, the stimulation of society and 
the development of civil society, the improved quality of the power supply, the improved quality of the 
environment, the creation of new jobs, improved economic innovation, and boosting economic 
development. It should be noted that nowadays in Europe and beyond, coal energy, which leaves a so-
called carbon footprint, is being abandoned in favor of clean energy, which is energy from renewable 
energy sources, including wind, sun, water and biomass. In this area of economic development, local 
energy production and distribution systems are being developed which are to a certain extent 
independent of monopolistic, large operators of energy distribution systems (DSO), gas distribution 
system operators (GSO) and heat distribution system operators (HSO). This also results in a new 
dimension in the construction of a competitive electric energy system. It is currently being built through 
the generation and distribution of energy by large economic operators to which users of the system, i.e. 
customers who are energy consumers, are connected. Distributed energy mechanisms are also being 
developed, moving away from point energy within a closed network, shaping the so-called open market 
for prosumer energy based on the expansion of local energy communities supported by energy storage 
technologies. Thus, an alternative energy market which strongly triggers changes in the strategy of 
adapting large electricity distribution companies is being created to some extent. In addition, another 
stream of development of energy systems through energy clusters is the creation of so-called direct 
power lines, which are the link between, for example, a large industrial plant, which has generated 
excess energy, which can be sold back to individual energy consumers (customers) at a competitive 
price. This price may be competitive for customers due to the short supply of an energy section between 
the energy producer and the customer, which also results in low energy losses in its supply. It is also 
important that such an energy cluster operates in a so-called area-based context, which determines its 
functioning within a closed local energy system, tight within the precise boundaries. Therefore, 
relationships occur between: 
- an institutional, industrial energy system and an individual, personalized energy system,  
- a traditional energy system and an energy system from Renewable Energy Sources (RES), 
- a point energy system  and a distributed energy system, 
- energy based on individual customers connected to the energy network and energy based on so-
called prosumers, 
- industrial storage facilities and individual storage facilities.  
This approach definitely changes the logic of the energy sector, and local energy clusters are a highly 
dynamizing factor. The energy balance of the region is then determined by means of a specific 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
667 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
measurement system based on, inter alia, indicators such as power in MW installed by cluster members, 
the total annual energy production from RES by energy cluster members in MWh, the total energy 
consumption within the energy cluster in MWh, the energy coverage by the cluster members in 
percentage terms in the municipality with reference to the supply of other energy sources to ensure the 
energy needs of the municipality, and the budget allocated to the creation and maintenance of the 
energy cluster in the region. Thus, in order to create the dynamic development of such an energy cluster, 
it is worth asking several key strategic questions. 
- How will energy balance at different time intervals in a given region? 
- How will the ratio of traditional energy used in the region to renewable energy sources change at 
different time intervals? 
- How will the institutional energy structure change in relation to distributed energy?  
The comprehensive answer to the above questions opens the space to shaping the digital ecological 
business models of enterprises created by energy clusters. 
5. The adopted methodology of research into the digital 
ecological business models of enterprises created by 
energy clusters 
The article uses qualitative research by means of comparative analysis and network analysis to 
determine and aggregate the structure and logic of the functioning of digital ecological business models. 
They are based on the foundations of design mechanisms. Design is a process that binds core functions 
substantively, which are, on the one hand, complex analytical and research work, and on the other hand, 
they consist of creating solutions for specific design tasks. Core functions include identification, 
modelling, diagnosis, prospective analysis, and design decision-making. The scope of each of these 
functions has its own specificity, which is reflected in detailed research activities (sub-functions). The 
design methodology should take into account both the universality of specific research canons and the 
specificity of approaches and methodologies used. Universality should be interpreted as the universality 
of principles and concepts that are common to design in technical fields, in the sphere of science, as well 
as in the field of organization, management, economics and others. Specificity, on the other hand, is a 
distinguishing feature of the research process and the instruments used (methods, techniques, 
algorithms) (Stabryła, 2016). In order to define core assumptions and principles for the design of the 
digital ecological business models of enterprises created by energy clusters, a functional-modelling 
approach was adopted, which exposes a function (objective, task, ownership) in the study rather than a 
form, and above all, introduces a pattern into the procedure. It can be an ideal or real construction and 
is a test to be achieved by the research process (Martyniak, 1999). In the research process, a developed 
approach to the content of the design science should be used. An integrated design and implementation 
methodology can be used here. It is primarily expressed by the following features: 
- a well-defined purpose of the design process, 
- the holistic arrangement of the design system components in mutual relationships, 
- a coherent structure combining the process of design and implementation of the developed solution, 
- a logically coherent design process with a fixed sequence of major phases: goal setting and 
formulation of assumptions, solution concept, preliminary design, final design, prototype, and 
implementation, 
- communication mechanisms enabling feedback (Giesko, 2015). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
668 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
In this context, the research methodology adopted should provide an answer to the following question: 
What factors, layers and logic of model design created as a result of the cluster network function in a 
given region will stimulate the emergence of the digital ecological business models of enterprises 
created by energy clusters? 
To this end, the original design methodology of the digital ecological business models of enterprises 
created by energy clusters composed of the following three design processes was applied: 
- layered design, 
- step design, 
- area-based design. 
These are described in detail below. 
6. A layered design of the digital ecological business 
models of enterprises created by energy clusters - an 
original approach 
The proper construction of the business model is a core challenge for modern managers. Its optimal 
configuration determines the maximum rate of return from the implemented business model. From this 
cognitive perspective, it can be designed and implemented by means of a layered approach. This 
approach consists of defining a specific substantive layer, the definition of which, together with 
interpretation, sets important assumptions for the creation of strategic goals in the developed strategy 
of the development and growth of the organization. The first layer proposed is the energy layer.  
1. The essence of the energy layer is the use of different methods and techniques to identify and 
exchange the region’s energy potential between producers and users. It is important to shape energy 
self-sufficiency in a given time interval based mainly on renewable energy sources, i.e. so-called 
green energy, for the benefit of the local energy community with a high level of prosumer functions. 
2. The essence of the ecological layer is the application of various ecological criteria related, inter alia, 
to the management of emissions to soil, water, air, waste generation and resource use using the 
“cradle to cradle” logic embedded in the circular economy concept. It has a resultant nature based 
on the overriding objective of minimizing an adverse impact on the environment.  
3. The essence of the digital layer is the use of modern digital techniques in terms of technology and 
communication. In technological terms, this mainly concerns the digitalization of industrial processes 
by means of new digital solutions, among other things. In communication terms, this concerns the 
exchange of information and how it is processed in relation to the adopted decision-making 
mechanisms. In particular, it concerns the use of artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things (IoT), 
Cloud Computing, and Big Data in the context of the circular and sharing economy.  
4. The essence of the economic layer is to define the logic for determining the economic costs and 
benefits in the system management processes, which is the network of distributed energy sources in 
the energy cluster ecosystem for the purpose of obtaining acceptable rates of return from the 
operational and investment processes conducted, related to the above-mentioned layers, i.e. the 
digital, ecological and energy layers.  
Figure 1 below presents the layer system of energy cluster management in the process of creating digital 
ecological business models. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
669 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure6. The layer system of energy cluster management in the process of creating digital ecological 
business models 
 
Source: Own study. 
Such an approach allows for a multidimensional look at the creation of such business models, the 
implementation of which allows for the achievement of numerous benefits through a single business 
model of the network and embedded digital ecological business models of enterprises operating in this 
network in a given region.  
7. A step design of digital ecological business models 
from a network perspective – an original approach 
In order to obtain the required benefits from the implementation of the digital ecological business 
models, it is important to determine an acceptable and feasible time interval mechanism for designing 
a digital ecological business model of an energy cluster. Table 1 below presents the successive steps in 
this process. 
Table 6. Project - implementing a digital ecological business model of an energy cluster 
No. 
Project - implementing a digital ecological business model of an energy cluster 
1. 
Analyzing the energy potential of renewable energy in the region where the energy cluster 
operates. 
2. 
Analyzing the legal situation enabling the functioning of the energy cluster institutions:  
a. International level, 
b. National level, 
c. Regional level. 
3. 
Inventory of resources for the energy cluster, including digital and analogue resources. 
4. 
Defining principles for the creation of documents in the field of low-carbon, energy and 
planning economy. 
5. 
Updating core documents, including an update of the assumptions for the heat, power and 
gaseous fuel supply plan. 
6. 
Conducting a comprehensive inventory: 
 
Energy layer 
Ecological layer 
Digital layer 
Economic layer 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
670 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
No. 
Project - implementing a digital ecological business model of an energy cluster 
a. Inventory of the power grid, 
b. Inventory of the gas network, 
c. Inventory of electrical and thermal energy generating units, 
d. Waste management inventory,  
e. Inventory of water, sewage and water resources. 
7. 
Conducting the energy balance within the energy cluster area of activity 
8. 
Identifying the potential of the energy market in the energy cluster area: 
a. The potential of the energy market, 
b. The potential of the energy efficiency market, 
c. The potential of the thermal energy market, 
d. The potential of the fuel market. 
9. 
Identifying the potential for reducing low emissions within the operation of the energy 
cluster. 
10. 
Strategic analyses for the energy cluster covering the area of operation of the cluster in 
macroeconomic, mesoeconomic and microeconomic terms. 
11. 
Developing an institutional model for the energy cluster. 
12. 
Defining the assumptions and guidelines for the energy cluster as an Integrator/Aggregator 
of the Local Balancing Area within the National Energy System in the following areas: 
a. Manufacturing infrastructure, 
b. Distribution infrastructure, 
c. IT architecture within Smart Grid18, Smart Energy19, IoT20, DSR21 (Demand Side Response), 
DSM22 (Demand Side Management). 
13. 
Developing the energy cluster schedule of activity. 
14. 
Analyzing the risks of the energy cluster activity in the context of the proposed solutions and 
changes in the legal and technological environment with reference to digital and analogue 
conditions applicable to the construction of the business model. 
15. 
Developing the Cluster Visual Identification System – an Image Book  
 
18 Smart Grid is a smart power grid in which advanced power equipment and telecommunications technologies have 
been installed to improve grid operation control and energy management. They allow for the connection of 
microgenerators (at low voltage level) and energy storage to the grid and the management of household appliances 
“behind the meter” in individual households. 
19 Smart Energy is an innovative solution that allows one to meet the expectations of the market in a modular way, 
while ensuring energy efficiency and economic efficiency. 
The concept of the Smart Energy System (SES) is based on the phenomenon of combined energy generation in one 
technological process, i.e. polygeneration. 
20 IoT is a concept whereby objects can monitor different parameters, accumulate data and transfer them to each 
other over a computer network. The implementation of this technology for the current energy solutions is completely 
non-invasive. The ability to collect data, analyze it further and draw conclusions opens the door to the better use of 
energy and even predicting the future through artificial intelligence (AI). Data collection involves connecting 
modules monitoring the parameters of the most important power nodes of a given grid. 
21 Demand Side Response (DSR) is one of the countermeasures applied by Electricity Grids to ensure a power 
balance in the national energy system in extreme situations where the balance between electricity demand and the 
available generation and transmission capabilities is temporarily compromised. 
22 Demand Side Management (DSM) is an integral part of integrated energy resource planning (IRP - Integrated 
Resources Planning). DSM consists of using various demand-side measures (programs) to reduce the cost of 
supplying energy, such as saving energy (energy-efficient refrigerators, light bulbs), energy-efficient construction, 
the use of high-efficiency electric motors, and direct load regulation. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
671 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
No. 
Project - implementing a digital ecological business model of an energy cluster 
16. 
Preparing final conclusions and strategic recommendations for the development of the 
cluster. 
Source: Own study. 
As part of the step design described, it is important to define core milestones for the effective and 
efficient implementation of the digital ecological business models of enterprises in the energy cluster 
ecosystem. 
8. Digital ecological business models of enterprises in the 
energy cluster ecosystem – an original approach 
A result of the implementation of the above mechanism for the design of an energy cluster digital 
ecological business model is the development of an area-based model, which emerges in decision-
making in the context of operational and investment processes. It is necessary to precisely define the 
relationships taking place in the emerging ecosystem with specific electricity potential. Thinking about 
interrelationships in the system is crucial to an understanding of how an organization can change the 
system to influence the sustainable management of resources in its portfolio of activities, products and 
services. Figure 2 below presents the area-based model of the system that influences the sustainable 
management of resources in the portfolio of its activities, products and services.  
Figure 7. Area-based model of the system that influences the sustainable management of resources 
in the portfolio of its activities, products and services. 
 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G 
H 
Key: 
A 
an organization: one part of a system 
key actors or stakeholders, e.g. regulators, suppliers, communities, NGOs, technology providers, clients 
external factors, e.g. environmental constraints, policy and regulation, consumer preferences, advances in 
technology 
feedback loops, e.g. new communication channels, new relationships, customer feedback, recycling or 
reuse of products and materials, wider social value 
system boundary, e.g. geographical/place-based, sector, market 
relationship link, e.g. formal (contractual, transactional) and informal (knowledge exchange, business 
support, community relationships) 
systematic intervention: new inputs, changing the total output of the system, e.g. standards or rating 
schemes, policy changes, product or service innovation, business model innovation, increase access to 
solutions, reshape supply, create user demand, implement new platforms 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
672 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Source: Own study based on ISO 14090:2019. 
These relationships are one-way links, which means that organization A depends on a product or service 
from organization B, but not vice versa. Interrelationships are two-way links, meaning that organizations 
A and B are interdependent (ISO 14090:2019). 
This is a baseline model for the development of a resultant, final area-based model for the digital 
ecological business models of enterprises in the energy cluster ecosystem. Such a model resulting from 
a specific network analysis allows for the geographical management of the development and growth of 
the energy cluster according to the developed and implemented digital ecological business models of 
enterprises. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
673 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure8. Technological network of the institutional distributed energy system.
 
Source: Own study.
DSO 
Energy producer 
Energy 
consumer 
(O1...On)
energy 
purchased 
energy 
returned 
energy accepted
GSO 
Gas supply source 
Prosumer 
(P1...Pn) 
Gas consumer 
(O1...He) 
Heat producer 
HSO 
Heat consumer 
(O1...On) 
Power sources 
WSSO 
Water 
consumer 
(O1...On) 
Prosumer 
(P1...Pn) 
energy returned 
Electric 
charging 
points 
Storage 
facilities 
Prosumer 
(P1...Pn) 
Prosumer 
(P1...Pn) 
geographical boundary of the distributed energy system 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
674 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 9. Distributed energy transmission system.
Source: Own study. 
Industrial energy producers 
(industrial companies with excess 
energy) within the distribution 
network within the local energy 
system 
collective energy storage facilities 
within the local energy system 
Prosumers within the local 
energy system 
P1 
P2 
. 
PN 
P2 
. 
Direct transmission power line (DSO) 
Stabilizing the energy system 
geographical boundary of distributed energy transmission supply 
. 
P1 
PN 
. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
675 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
As part of the process of designing the energy cluster area-based business model, the definition of the 
main actors of the local power system is crucial. These include the following: 
1. DSO - Energy distribution system operator, 
2. HSO - Heat distribution system operator, 
3. GSO - Gas distribution system operator, 
4. WSSO - Water and sewage distribution system operator. 
These are so-called institutional actors. In their distribution systems, networks of individual customers are 
built, which may be individuals and companies and other entities with a demand for a particular type of 
media. The local energy system based on the institutional network also includes prosumers, who produce, 
purchase and return excess energy to the system or store it in their own or collective energy storage 
facilities. 
Another element of the system is the relationship between industrial plants which, through a direct 
transmission power line, deliver generated excess energy from RES to consumers or prosumers close to 
that industrial plant (then the cost of purchasing energy for the consumer is relatively cheaper than buying 
it from an institutional operator and there are small energy losses in the transmission network). The last 
type of operator in a local distribution system is point prosumers, who produce energy for their own needs 
and return excess energy to the system or store it in energy storage facilities. The logic thus adopted 
determines the functioning of the energy cluster in an area in a given region, which creates its own local 
energy system. It is represented graphically (Figure 3, Figure 4).  
9. Strategic recommendations for the construction and 
operation of the digital ecological business models of 
enterprises created by energy clusters 
Based on multidimensional research related to the construction of the digital ecological business models 
of enterprises created by energy clusters, core strategic recommendations have been developed for their 
strong application in the economy. 
1. The core strategic objective of an energy cluster is to create an energy self-sufficient region within 
which the cluster operates. It is then important to build their own local energy infrastructure, including 
in the area of energy distribution for energy self-sufficiency. 
2. Given that the energy sector is regulated, current legislation in this area should be taken into account 
when building business models and energy cluster strategies. 
3. The generation of green power and the impact on the local energy market are a core mechanism by 
which energy clusters function. 
4. Energy clusters are built to reduce the costs associated with energy consumption and increase 
revenues from energy produced on the cluster premises. 
5. It is necessary to define the civic renewable energy community precisely, i.e. a prosumer and a group 
prosumer. It is particularly important to promote so-called vulnerable consumers, i.e. those with 
minimal economic potential. It is also important to be aware that in the energy balancing system, the 
civic energy community is treated as a whole. The area of action of the civic energy community should 
be the area of one DSO. This is mainly about the location of the connection to the power grid. 
6. The use of energy balancing services is a very important strategic objective for energy prosumers. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
676 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
7. The concept of a virtual prosumer, a collective prosumer and a representative of prosumers is now 
strongly promoted. 
8. The energy price within an energy cluster depends on balancing and the level of protection of energy 
needs of cluster participants by energy producers in the cluster. 
9. Energy communities and energy clusters are created to promote the consumption of energy produced 
from renewable energy sources, i.e. green energy produced in an environmentally friendly manner 
without an adverse environmental impact, on the one hand, and high energy prices, on the other hand, 
result in the search for lower costs of purchasing energy by seeking cheaper energy sources within the 
budget, thereby increasing the competitiveness of products that are cheaper due to lower energy costs 
spent.  
10. The place of energy communities and energy clusters is currently essentially focused on the 
development of distribution grid infrastructure.  
11. In small, local energy systems such as local energy communities and energy clusters, hybrid systems 
are built using at least two technologies that work for one system, the energy system. 
12. The local distribution system must be connected by combining production sources with the largest 
industrial players that consume the greatest energy potential.  
13. Efforts must be made in the local community to minimize the use of external distribution networks. 
14. Local energy structures consisting of consumers are then built by creating local energy sources. 
15. It is important to comprehensively assess the possibilities available to energy cluster members for the 
construction of a self-balanced energy system. 
16. Adjacent clusters should also be interconnected for cluster exchanges. 
17. The energy production curve for the types of energy produced must be constantly analyzed. 
18. The concept of energy storage for the so-called market game in the area of energy purchase and sales 
should be analyzed comprehensively in an energy cluster. 
19. It is important to accumulate energy in energy storage facilities and to deliver it at an optimal time 
according to applicable tariffs. 
20. The use of RES in auto-consumption should be widely promoted among energy cluster members. 
21. It is necessary to define the precise requirements for the degree of energy need coverage of the 
cluster’s own members. An energy cluster is most efficient when the energy turnover is achieved 
entirely within the cluster. 
22. Within an energy cluster, it is important to create an image of the so-called green region. 
23. Promoting local energy sources close to its consumers is an important strategic objective of an energy 
cluster. It is important to use one’s own energy resources efficiently. 
24. Cluster strategy should also refer to the so-called industrial power plant, which should be regarded as 
a regional catalyst for the development of distributed energy. 
25. The strategic objectives of a cluster should be strongly focused on the development of the circular 
economy. 
26. The core objective of an energy cluster is to increase the competitiveness of the local economy by 
encouraging the use of RES as green energy from clean energy sources. 
27. Energy clusters can be a catalyst for Technology Hubs, i.e. headquarters in which entities that operate 
in the energy sector participate together with scientific cooperation. 
28.  Energy clusters can be, inter alia, a catalyst for the development of Hydrogen Valleys. 
29. The role of energy storage in systemic terms as a strong stabilizer of RES energy should be enhanced. 
30. A direct power line in the energy system is a strategically important connection for the development 
of the local energy system between an energy producer installation, e.g. a large photovoltaic 
installation, and a plant that wants to buy it from that producer. Such a connection can bypass the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
677 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
entire network, which is a significant economic advantage for such a solution. Such an installation may 
also have its own energy storage facility. 
31. It should be borne in mind that wind and photovoltaic farms are characterized by a random process 
for the production of the energy units concerned. 
32. Prosumer energy is not large-scale, so one must be aware that it is part of distributed energy, but on 
a small, local scale, which is both an advantage and a disadvantage. 
33. In order to build an effective and efficient energy cluster, the development plans of the Distribution 
Network Operators must be known, so that they are included in the investment objectives of the 
energy cluster. 
34. Attention must be paid to the cost-effectiveness of energy trading in a cluster as part of its 
multidimensional economic analysis. 
35. A very professionally defined logic of energy cluster management processes is necessary to create an 
effective and efficient local energy market as a distributed energy system. Distributed energy is 
generally everything which differs from the current energy within medium and low voltages. 
36. The construction of direct lines between energy producers and energy consumers will significantly 
reduce costs in terms of transmission, but may increase costs for DSO. Operators are billed at fixed 
and variable rates that depend on the amount of energy that will pass through the grid. Therefore, if 
the consumer and the producer disconnect, the cost of maintaining the network will be higher, 
because less energy will flow through it. As such, it is important to balance this process wisely and 
systemically. 
37. It is important that energy clusters build their own energy distribution networks. This is a very complex 
issue and requires thorough analysis. There is a need for a multi-criteria analysis of the regional energy 
potential. It should be remembered that energy from RES has high CAPEX costs and very low OPEX 
costs compared to traditional energy, while traditional energy has high CAPEX and high OPEX costs. It 
is also important to bear in mind the length of energy transmission routes as part of the decision to 
build their own distribution network. 
38. The DSO can connect new RES producers to their distribution system. It is necessary to measure the 
transmission of energy on a given section of the network from the DSO. 
39. It is necessary to choose the optimal model for the use of the transmission systems of the existing DSO 
in the context of deciding to build their own distribution networks in the local energy system operating 
within the energy cluster. 
40. The biggest obstacle to the development of energy clusters is the current legislation and possible legal 
solutions allowing for economic benefits and a lack of full awareness of building the local energy 
market. 
41. It should be remembered that today distributed energy with the increased use of RES is not a niche 
theme because there is a systemic change in energy, due in part to the military crisis in Europe. 
42. Thermal energy is supplied mainly by local government companies or with the participation of the 
municipality, and it must be remembered that thermal energy is far more technologically difficult to 
implement than energy. 
43. Often, when looking for new paths to development in their strategies, businesses do not fully recognize 
the fact that distributed energy and local energy supply can help improve the energy efficiency of 
businesses using green energy so that the products produced by these companies do not have a carbon 
footprint. 
44. Factors related to the development of energy clusters and distributed energy have an external 
dimension at the state level and their legislation and an internal dimension at the level of the energy 
efficiency of the energy system at the local level of the municipality. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
678 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
45. The intentions associated with the construction of local, distributed energy systems aim to ensure that 
traditionally functioning DSOs will distribute less and less energy. This will lead to significant costs for 
them. 
46. The method of selling and leasing distribution systems to clusters will be an important process in the 
future. 
47. It is important to allocate the investment and operating costs associated with its maintenance and 
energy prices that we offer in our RES, which, by adding investment in energy storage facilities, are 
later transferred to energy consumers in a given cluster. 
48. When energy is sold, costs associated with maintaining the national energy system have to be incurred, 
i.e., for example, the capacity fee, which is crucial to maintaining the appropriate production level in 
the system. 
49. The analysis of the capacity market confirms that energy production in RES causes a significant 
decrease in revenues in conventional power plants. 
50. There is a revenue gap that makes conventional energy increasingly unprofitable. 
51. The capacity market is intended to be a mechanism to fill the revenue gap between the energy to be 
produced from a conventional energy source to cover its fixed and variable costs through reduced 
sales, and to boost RES development activities within the functioning capacity market. 
52. In the future it is possible that large production installations within a cluster will become critical 
infrastructure for the state and included in the list of these installations. 
53. Energy should be balanced mainly in real time (the best solution) or in an off-line system. 
54. The main power supply points in a cluster and the energy reception points within the cluster must be 
defined in the management of the energy infrastructure. 
55.  The energy in a cluster can be received and distributed to the National Energy System by a local 
distribution company. 
56. Technological and organizational processes initiated and implemented should be tailored to the needs 
of an energy cluster. 
57. Heat recovery as part of the circular economy can also be used in energy clusters. 
58. Tri-generation must also be included in an energy cluster. 
59. Energy clusters can be classified as so-called “technological sandboxes”.  
60. The random nature of the storage facilities of energy produced from wind and photovoltaic farms in 
the area of production is being replaced with the quasi-regulated nature thereof by means of its 
accumulation in energy storage facilities. 
61. Mining excavations can be used as tanks for energy batteries. 
62. Energy storage tanks are also electro-technical cells, i.e. batteries and super capacitors. 
63. Changes in prosumer settlements in terms of the use of their installations are highly controversial in 
the current legislation, against which distribution companies are protesting vociferously. The concept 
of so-called regulated revenue is being used. In accordance with the requirements laid down by the 
Energy Regulatory Offices, regulated revenue is the total revenue consisting of the sum of all costs in 
the energy company plus the intended investment expenditure included in their development plan. 
64.  Fixed and variable charges are very important in this case. Fixed charges are due to specific capacity 
at consumers’ and variable charges result from the quantity of planned energy distribution. 
65. The best solution for prosumers in the near future is to have local, backyard energy storage facilities. 
Then the excess energy produced e.g. by photovoltaic installation should be stored in order to use it 
later. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
679 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
66. It is important for local energy communities that the cluster coordinator has a licence for the process 
of energy distribution and trading. It will then be able to generate revenue through the operation of 
the cluster using existing energy sources. 
67. Energy storage is an opportunity for better flexibility in the operation of an unstable energy source in 
order to maximize financial revenue from it.  
68. Financial income in this case can also be considered as the avoided cost of purchasing energy from 
external energy sources. 
69. The daily income of an energy cluster is the sum of energy production throughout the day and the 
energy price received in the tariff or on the free market. 
70. The objective of each energy producer is that the financial income from the energy produced should 
aim to achieve a maximum value. Subsequently, the question of whether to load or unload a given 
energy storage facility is calculated and concluded precisely in economic terms.  
71. The strategy of loading and unloading energy in an energy storage facility is achieved as revenue 
maximization, i.e. the difference between the unloading income of a storage facility in order to market 
it in the distribution system and the loading cost thereof. The storage facility can also be loaded with 
energy from the outside. 
72. A core problem in RES is the randomness of energy production from a given RES source.  
73. The cost of imbalance in the energy system related to the randomness of a given RES source is the sum 
of two products, the difference between energy produced and the energy contracted in a given sales 
process. 
74. In contracts in unstable energy sources, an energy price that includes the cost of imbalanced energy is 
obtained because the buyer has to purchase additional energy from another source of generation if it 
does not balance. 
75. The purchase price of energy from the balancing market and the sales price to the balancing market 
are an absolutely crucial and constantly analyzed relationship. 
76. We always try to load the storage facility with the excess energy we have in our project. Therefore, the 
energy source produced more power than the power recorded in our contract with the customer, so 
we load the storage facility with the excess energy we have in our project. 
77. The optimal decision-making algorithm must always be defined in this process. The storage facility 
should be unloaded when the fee for the energy in the system is highest. Our source produces energy 
and the storage facility is loaded, but it has to be unloaded for the purpose of the contract; therefore, 
the storage facility is unloaded under specific, favorable market conditions. Therefore, the price on the 
balancing or stock market is higher than the price of the settlement contract. It is not worth buying 
energy to perform this energy contract, either on the exchange or on the balancing market; this way, 
additional revenue is obtained from increased production in order to perform the contract or to 
achieve certain excess production.  
78. Therefore, the use of a loading and unloading mechanism by means of balancing market mechanisms 
is important in the process of optimizing energy production. In this case, it is assumed that the price 
of the balancing market for purchases and the price of the balancing market for energy sales is the 
same. This is a controversial process to be analyzed and generates space for speculation. The purchase 
of energy should therefore be very expensive and the resale of energy to the balancing market should 
be very cheap. Then an excellent space for energy producers with energy storage facilities will be 
released, because with the modification of the current balancing market, producers who will be able 
to declare this energy on such a balancing market will be able to do so, i.e. they will be mainly RES 
producers. On such a balancing market, adequate revenue can then be achieved. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
680 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
10. Conclusion 
In a multidimensional summary of the research conducted in connection with the design of the digital 
ecological business models of enterprises created by energy clusters, it should be noted that the 
construction of such business models requires a complex analytical process with the use of appropriate 
factors, layers and logic of the digital business models of enterprises. From this cognitive perspective, it is 
important to compare digital and ecological aspects in the layered, step and area-based design of this 
type of business. This generates a comprehensive synthesis of results for its full application, which ensures 
the effectiveness and efficiency of the digital ecological business models of enterprises created by energy 
clusters. It should also be pointed out that the solutions used may be directly applicable in the modern 
economy, which aims to achieve climate neutrality. The authors are also aware of the limitations resulting 
from the fact that the subject presented is relatively new and strongly evolving now, including from the 
perspective of the military, social and climate crisis in Europe, among others. In addition, this issue could 
still be developed by other scientists so that added value is generated that positively influences climate 
change in Europe and beyond. 
References  
Alexander, M. & Dessai, S. (2019) What can climate services learn from the wider services literature? Climatic 
Change. 157, 133-149. 
Arslan, A., Haapanen, L., Hurmelinna-Laukkanen, P., Tarba, S.Y. & Alon, I. (2021) Climate change, consumer lifestyles 
and Legitimation strategies of sustainability-oriented firms. European Management Journal. 39(6), 720-730. 
Baden-Fuller, C. & Haefliger, S. (2013) Business Models and Technological Innovation. Long Range Planning. 46(6), 
419-426. 
Bankvall, L., Dubois, A. & Lind, F. (2017) Conceptualising business models in industrial networks. Industrial Marketing 
Management. 60, 196-203. 
Bleda, M. & Shackley, S. (2008) The dynamics of belief in climate change and its risks in business organizations. 
Ecological Economics. 66(2-3), 517-532. 
Bocken, N.M.P. & Geradts, T.H.J. (2020) Barriers and drivers to sustainable business model innovation: Organization 
design and dynamic capabilities. Long Range Planning. 53(4), 101950.  
Dohrmann, S., Raith, M. & Siebold, N. (2015) monetising Social Value Creation — A Business Model Approach. 
Entrepreneurship Research Journal. 5(2), 127-154. 
European Commission, A European Green Deal, Striving to be the first climate-neutral continent. 
https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en [access: 08.04.2022] 
Fell, M.J. (2017) Energy services: a conceptual review. Energy Research & Social Science. 27, 129-140. 
Frankenberger, K., Weiblen, T. & Gassmann, O. (2013) Network configuration, customer centricity, and performance 
of open business models: A solution provider perspective. Industrial Marketing Management. 42(5), 671-682. 
Giesko, T. Methodology of optomatronic systems design, [in:] (eds.) Mazurkiewicz A. & Giesko T. (2015) Advanced 
mechatronic technologies supporting the processes of operation and production of technical facilities. edition: 
1, chapter: 1, Scientific Publishing House of the Institute of Exploitation Technology — PIB,11-34. 
Gregori, P. & Holzmann, P. (2020) Digital sustainable entrepreneurship: A business model perspective on embedding 
digital technologies for social and environmental value creation. Journal of Cleaner Production. 272, 122817. 
Hewitt, C.D. & Stone, R. (2021) Climate services for managing societal risks and opportunities. Climate Services. 23, 
100240. 
Hill, D. & Engel-Cox, J. (2017) Energy Innovation Clusters and their Influence on Manufacturing: A Case Study 
Perspective, Technical Report. Clean Energy Manufacturing Analysis Center. 
ISO 14090:2019, Adaptation to climate change — Principles, requirements and guidelines. 
ISO 14090:2019, Adaptation to climate change — Principles, requirements and guidelines. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
681 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
ISO 50001:2018 Energy management systems — Requirements with guidance for use. 
ISO/IEC 13273-1:2015 Energy efficiency and renewable energy sources — Common international terminology — Part 
1: Energy efficiency. 
ISO/IEC 13273-2:2015 Energy efficiency and renewable energy sources — Common international terminology — Part 
2: Renewable energy sources. 
Jabłoński, A. (2016) Scalability of Sustainable Business Models in Hybrid Organizations, Sustainability. 8(3), 194. 
Jabłoński, A. & Jabłoński, M. (2016) Research on Business Models in their Life Cycle, Sustainability. 8(5), 430. 
Jabłoński, A. & Jabłoński, M. (2020) Social Business Models in the Digital Economy, New Concepts and Contemporary 
Challenges, Cham, Palgrave Macmillan. 
Jabłoński, A. & Jabłoński, M. (2021) Digital Business Models, Perspectives on Monetisation. Oxon, New York, 
Routledge, Abingdon. 
Jeong, M. & Oh, H. (2017) Business-to-business social exchange relationship beyond trust and commitment. 
International Journal of Hospitality Management. 65, 115-124. 
Jiang, S. & Li, J. (2020) Global climate governance in the new era: Potential of business actors and technological 
innovation, Chinese Journal of Population, Resources and Environment. 18(3), 165-171. 
Justwan, F. Bakker, R. & Berejikian, J.D. (2018) Measuring social trust and trusting the measure. The Social Science 
Journal. 55(2), 149-159. 
Kindermann, B., Beutel, S., de Lomana, G.G., Strese, S., Bendig, D. & Brettel, M. (2021) Digital orientation: 
Conceptualisation and operationalisation of a new strategic orientation. European Management Journal. 39(5), 
645-657. 
Kulins, C., Leonardy, H. & Weber, C. (2016) A configurational approach in business model design. Journal of Business 
Research. 69(4), 1437-1441. 
Larosa, F. & Mysiak, J. (2020) Business models for climate services: An analysis. Climate Services. 17, 100111. 
Liu, J., Tong, T.W. & Sinfield, J.V. (2021) Toward a resilient complex adaptive system view of business models. Long 
Range Planning. 54(3), 102030. 
Manninen, K., Koskela, S., Antikainen, R., N., Bocken, Dahlbo, H. & Aminoff, A. (2018) To circular economy business 
models capture intended environmental value propositions?. Journal of Cleaner Production. 171, 413-422. 
Martyniak, Z. (1999) Organization and management methods. Publishing house at the Cracow University of 
Economics, Cracow. 
Morton, J., Wilson, A.D. & Cooke, L. (2020) The digital work of Strategists: Using open strategy for organizational 
transformation. Journal of Strategic Information Systems. 29(2), 101613. 
Niemimaa, M., Järveläinen, J., Heikkilä, M. & Heikkilä, J. (2019) Business continuity of business models: Evaluating 
the resilience of business models for contingencies. International Journal of Information Management. 49, 208-
216. 
Paul, A., Lang, J.W.B. & Baumgartner, R.J. (2017) A multilevel approach for assessing business strategies on climate 
change. Journal of Cleaner Production. 160(1), 50-70. 
Ramezani, J. & Camarinha-Matos, L.M. (2020) Approaches for resilience and antifragility in collaborative business 
ecosystems. Technological Forecasting & Social Change. 151, 119846. 
Redondo, T. (2015) The Digital Economy: Social Interaction Technologies — an Overview. International Journal of 
Interactive Multimedia and Artificial Intelligence. 3(2), 17-25. 
Ritter, T. & Pedersen, C.L. (2020a) Analysing the impact of the coronavirus crisis on business models. Industrial 
Marketing Management. 88, 214-224. 
Ritter, T. & Pedersen, C.L. (2020b) Digitisation capability and the digitisation of business models in business-to-
business firms: Past, present, and future. Industrial Marketing Management. 86, 180-190. 
Rochlin, C. (2021) Climate change and the progressive business model. The Electricity Journal. 34(4), 106927. 
Rosenstock, T.S., Lubberink, R., Gondwe, S., Manyise T. & Dentoni, D. (2020) Inclusive and adaptive business models 
for climate-smart value creation. Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability. 42, 76-81. 
Scott, J., (2012) What is social network analysis? New York, Bloomsbury Academic. 
Seetharaman, P. (2020) Business models shifts: Impact of Covid-19. International Journal of Information 
Management. 54, 102173. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
682 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Spieth, P., Schneider, S., Clauß, T. & Eichenberg, D. (2019) Value drivers of social businesses: A business model 
perspective. Long Range Planning. 52(3), 427-444. 
Istanbul, A. (2016) Research functions in the methodology of organizational systems design. Booklets Scientific 
University of Economics in Krakow. 6(954), 5-22. 
Swart, R., Celliers, L., Collard, M., Garcia Prats, A., Huang-Lachmann, J.-T., Sempere, F.L., de Jong, F., Máñez Costa, 
M., Martinez, G., Velazquez, M.P., Martín, A.R., Segretier, W., Stattner, E. & Timmermans, W. (2021) Reframing 
climate services to support municipal and regional planning, Climate Services. 22, 100227. 
Tase, M. (2019) Sectoral dynamics and business cycles. Economics Letters. 175, 60-63. 
Tauscher, K. & Abdelkafi, N. (2018) Scalability and robustness of business models for sustainability: A simulation 
experiment. Journal of Cleaner Production. 170, 654-664. 
Teece, D.J. (2017) Business models and dynamic capabilities. Long Range Planning. 51(1), 40-49.   
Tello, M.A. (2020) Conceptualising social impact: A geographic perspective. Journal of Business Research. 119, 562-
571. 
Verhoef, P.C., Broekhuizen, T., Bart, Y., Bhattacharya, A., Dong, J.Q., Fabian, N. & Haenlein, M. (2021) Digital 
transformation: A multidisciplinary reflection and research agenda. Journal of Business Research. 122, 889-901. 
Wirtz, B.W., Pistoia, A. Ullrich, S. & Göttel, V. (2016) Business Models: Origin, Development and Future Research 
Perspectives. Long Range Planning. 49(1), 36-54.  
Zaoui, F. & Souissi, N. (2020) Roadmap for digital transformation: A literature review. Procedia Computer Science. 
175, 621-628. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
683 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Service Design as a Sustainability 
Assessment Approach for Circular 
Business Models  
Case: Assessment of Finnish circular companies’ 
business models from the service design perspective  
Helena Sustar1,*,+ 
1Service design teacher at Aalto Open University and Helena Sustar Tmi 
CEO 
*helena.sustar@aalto.fi 
+ Sustainability assessment was done as a part of Aalto Open University 
service design courses  
Abstract 
Climate changes, overpopulation, resources overuse and ecological catastrophes require companies to 
embrace a circular economy and improve existing circular business models (CBMs). Due to their novelty, 
CBMs have been critiqued concerning their sustainability input at the company level. This paper 
contributes to the conference theme and session by assessing existing CBMs' sustainability using 
alternative sustainability assessment approach service design (SD) in three areas: innovation, which is 
crucial for sustainable business development enabling greater sustainability of CBMs; sustainable 
customer experiences on a human level allowing progressive organisational sustainability, and 
transparency in companies’ internal and external processes indicating high sustainability processes area. 
A pilot study assessed 16 Finnish companies with four CBMs in seven industries to answer how sustainable 
are CBMs across different industries when adopting SD as a sustainability assessment approach? The 
author completed an assessment at the university SD educational process for professionals. It consisted 
of CBMs analysis adopting various design tools and a redesign conducted at the virtual workshop. Results 
revealed high sustainability performance in groundbreaking technological innovation (n=8) reinforced 
with innovative CBM (n=6) and limited sustainability performance in all other areas: limited customer-
oriented services and poor user experiences (n=2), unfamiliarity with customer needs (n=9), haziness in 
the service life cycle (n=6), supply chain (n=4), value chain (n=5), and waste management (n=6). Therefore 
the short answer to RQ would be that pertinent CBMs are sustainable partly. Finally, the study 
demonstrates promising results when adopting SD as a sustainability assessment approach; however, the 
author recommends using other established procedures.  
Keywords  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
684 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
circular business models, service design, sustainability assessment, transparency, business innovation  
1. Introduction 
Climate change, limited resources, overpopulation, and the predominant take-make-waste economic 
principle requires the transition toward circular business models (CBMs), which have been in the Nordic 
countries since 2015 (Kiørboe, 2015). A circular economy (CE) breaks with the linear use of virgin material 
resources and transitions towards the economy, which is less dependent on raw materials extraction and 
more focused on minimising waste (de Wit et al., 2018: p.14). CE currently undertakes only 9.1% of the 
global economy (de Wit et al., 2018); however, strengthened by pertinent business models (BM), political 
support, and societal pressure, the CE will become dominant by 2050 (Enkvist & Klevnäs, 2018.).  
Companies must adopt CBMs to remain competitive in the market and resilient in uncertain futures. 
Businesses adopting a CBM benefit from higher resource productivity, reduced resource dependence and 
expanded growth. They can increase competitiveness and employment and increase innovation 
(Harmaala 2021). Next, have a more efficient supply chain that recovers or recycles the resources used to 
create the products, reduces the impact on the environment, lowers operational waste, and uses 
resources more efficiently (Atasu, Dumas & Van Wassenhove, 2021). However, companies must radically 
change their internal cultural values to achieve healthy growth (Stoknes, 2021).  
Many definitions of ‘sustainability assessment’ exist depending on the assessment process, subject of 
assessment, and expected assessment outputs (Therivel, Wilson, Thompson, Heaney & Pritchard 1992; 
Devuyst 1999). Then, the ones that contribute to the change toward a more sustainable society (Devuyst, 
2001) and those that propose alternative concepts definitions of sustainability assessment titled 
‘assessment for sustainability ’ (Pope, Annandale & Morrison-Saunders, 2004). According to Bond, 
Morrison-Saunders & Pope (2012), a present framing of an impact assessment of sustainability 
assessment focuses on delivering current and future positive impact. Therefore, it could direct any type 
of decision-making, profoundly diverse in its form. Bond et al. (2012) believe that sustainability 
assessment is still in the expansion phase. Along with Bond et al.’s (2012) notion author selected 
Verheem’s (2002) definition of sustainability assessment stating, “The aim of sustainability assessment is 
to ensure that ‘‘plans and activities make an optimal contribution to sustainable development’’. Although 
this definition is generic allows the development of no standard sustainability assessment.  
The author identified constructive critiques concerning CBMs’ sustainability in BM literature. Despite the 
many benefits of the CE, like service-oriented BMs that can up to 90% reduce environmental impact 
(Tukker, 2004); however, companies are behind in developing more sustainable business models (SBM) 
(Ritala, at., 2018). Baumgartner & Rauter (2017) call for tangible strategies and clear guidance in assisting 
companies in implementing their sustainability initiatives more concretely. The evidence of CBMs’ 
ecological impact is limited (Bocken, Schuit & Kraaijenhagen, 2018).  In this pilot study, the author focused 
on three CBMs’ sustainability performance limitations extensively exposed in the SBMs’ academic 
literature: 
1.) CBMs’ innovation for sustainable development: Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund & Hansen (2012) argue 
that BMs innovation must assist a systemic, ongoing formation of sustainable business cases. Innovation 
is a subject of SBMs’ economic, social and environmental value creation improvements (Rauter, Zimek, 
Baumgartner & Schöggl, 2019); therefore, sustainable assessment is required to evaluate SBM’s 
innovation to improve these areas. Furthermore, Guldmann & Huulgaard (2019) reported companies’ 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
685 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
insufficiency in incremental product and process design improvements to attain sustainable development. 
Again, current resource consumption and waste generation are unsustainable, resulting in the ecological 
system’s degradation; therefore, a more radical innovation of business operations is needed to result in 
long term sustainability requesting more sustainable business offerings (Bocken, Short, Rana & Evans, 
2013; Boons & Lüdeke-Freund 2013).  
2) Customer experiences are increasing sustainability in CBMs: Two years after the Paris agreement, Jain, 
Aagja & Bagdare (2017), in their customer experience research agenda, emphasised exploring customer 
experiences concerning social issues, quality of life and sustainability. Signori, Gozzo, Flint, Milfeld, & 
Satinover-Nichols (2019) stated a new connection emerging between sustainability and customer 
experience themes; however, it lacks a theoretical foundation. Furthermore, the authors recognised 
businesses’ actions toward sustainable customer experiences; however, better-planned touchpoints 
could improve businesses’ efforts and sustainable communications toward customers, refine strategies 
and move toward stronger collaborative SBMs by including customer experiences thoroughly. Besides, 
companies with CBM have limited transitions towards sustainability, omitting user practices, market 
policies and regulations (Nußholz, 2017; Gaziulusoy & Brezet, 2015; Bradey et al., 2020).  
3.) Service life cycle, value and supply chain, and waste management transparency in CBMs: Researchers 
state that CBM placement in the business logic of Anthropocene resembles incremental rather than 
fundamental change (Hofmann 2019; Kennedy & Bocken 2020) and leaves significant production and 
consumption operations challenges unsolved (Boons & Lüdeke-Freund 2013). Moreover, CBMs remain 
associated with challenging processes and their ecological and social impact, and behaviour change 
remains unknown (Hofmann 2019; Bocken et al. 2014; Boons & Lüdeke-Freund 2013). Companies with 
resource efficiency and recycling CBM remain dependent on companies creating waste to collect, sort and 
transform it into secondary raw material (Tamminen et al., 2020). Nowadays, organisations are requested 
to improve supply chain transparency to meet regulatory requirements, optimise operations, guarantee 
high-quality products and ensure sustainable processes (Montecchi, Plangger, & West, 2021).  Zhang, 
Huang, Wen, Pooja, & Shanmugan (2021) exposed CEs’ challenging factors like cooperation, trust and 
transparency required to achieve sustainable outputs, sustainable growth collaboration and cross-
organisational openness within networks and value chain. Furthermore, according to Vegter, van 
Hillegersberg, & Olthaar (2020), to evaluate sustainable business strategies is necessary to measure the 
concrete performance of all processes in the CBM supply chain.  
Furthermore, Prendeville & Bocken (2017) state that radically new SBMs are a systemic driver of change 
in the industry. Design thinking, sustainable strategic development (Shapira, Ketchie & Nehe,  2017), and 
service design (SD) have recently become a research priority in business innovation as they can, with their 
methodological approach, ease a negative impact on the environment (Ostrom et al., 2015). Lee, Oh & 
Choi (2021) report that although interest in the SD principles or SD methodology application increased in 
organisations, research on the elements influencing organisational innovation and performance through 
SD is missing. SD, with its capabilities, can re-design companies’ value propositions offerings to make the 
business economically viable again (Mager et al., 2020; Vink et al., 2021). Prendeville & Bocken (2017), 
stating that  
‘Service Design is the process of planning and organising people, technology and material components to 
enhance the quality of interactions between customers and providers.’ (p. 293)  
Harmaala (2021) states that earlier CBMs’ studies have not used the SD methodology, despite being a 
customer-centric approach, crucial for product, service or BM innovation. Lee et al. 2021 state that 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
686 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
bringing customer experience value while adopting SD methodology enables the development of 
innovative SBMs, which are recently rapidly extending to private companies. Services being processes in 
their core; therefore, the SD field developed tools that evaluate, assess and investigate internal and 
external organisational services life cycle processes, with tools like customer service journey and service 
blueprint. SD establishes best practices for designing services by enhancing customers’ needs and the 
service providers’ competencies. The results are user-friendly services relevant to the customers while 
being sustainable and competitive for the service providers (ibid).   
This paper contributes to the conference theme and session by addressing the research gap, which has 
not been covered yet, concerning the CBMs' sustainability performance in innovation for sustainable 
development, customer experiences in increasing sustainability and CBM’s transparency of service life 
cycle, supply and value chain and waste management adopting SD as a sustainability assessment 
approach. The author believes that has SD the potential as a sustainable assessment approach. Therefore, 
a pilot study was conducted to answer the research question (RQ):   
How sustainable are CBMs across different industries when adopting SD as a sustainability assessment 
approach?  
To answer this RQ author conducted a pilot assessing 16 Finnish companies CBMs utilising the SD as a 
sustainability assessment approach. With the pilot, the author demonstrates the possibility of 
sustainability assessment of the CBMs with SD in three areas: CBMs’ innovation, customer experiences 
and internal and external services production processes.    
The structure of the paper is as follows: introduction to CBMs, literature review on utilising SD in assessing 
CBMs sustainability. Following the methodological part of the pilot study presents the research design, 
cases, methodological approach, and data analysis procedure. The paper concludes with the result 
section, discussion and conclusions.     
1.1 Circular business models  
A central point of the company is its BM. A BM is a framework where the idea is turned into a business. It 
describes how a company makes a profit through innovation and how capital is generated. Furthermore, 
the BM reflects the relationships between the different elements and thus enables the company's 
business logic modelling. The BM essential elements are infrastructure, supply, customer and cash flow. 
Sustainable development, business partners, ecosystem or co-creation, can also be added when required 
(Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2002).  
SBMs and CBMs gained research interest (Dentchev et al. 2018) when the BM emerged as a new analysis 
unit (Zoot et al. 2011). Moreover, an SBMs entails a broader understanding of value and stakeholders 
since it ‘captures economic value while maintaining or regenerating natural, social and economic capital 
beyond its organisational boundaries’ (Schaltegger, Hansen, & Lüdeke-Freund, 2016, p: 6). According to 
Linder & Williander (2017), CBM is a type of SBM (Adams et al., 2016) that integrates environmental and 
economic value creation by everchanging the business logic from generating profits from one-time sales 
goods to generating earnings from a frequent flow of reused materials and products over time (Bakker et 
al., 2014), and by capitalising on the embedded value in used products. Several different CBM 
classifications exist; in this pilot study, the author adopted Lacy and Rutqvist's (2016) classification, which 
distinguishes between five circular business models: 1) circular supply chain models, which utilise in their 
production recyclable materials, such as renewable and bio-based materials and energy, to increase 
recovery rates. Results are easy to repair modular products.; 2) recovery and recycling models that collect 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
687 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
and recover materials of end-of-life products, waste, or by-products, which reuse them in their 
production; 3) product life extension models that, with repair and maintenance services, extend the life 
of existing products in the market, and by upgrading existing components with newer ones improve 
product performance. Besides, product life extension models extend the product’s life in the market by 
reselling them to second and third-hand markets or taking back the product and remanufacturing, 
restoring, or improving the original product’s functionality or remarketing them with a lower price.; 4) 
sharing-platform models, which enable distribution of various products and assets (vehicles, industrial 
machinery) through co-ownership or co-access mechanisms.; and 5) product as a service, models that sell 
services rather than products, with offering customers to use a product on a subscription basis against 
fees or usage-based charges, instead of owning it. Selected cases for the pilot study concern 2 to 5.  
 
Figure 1. Classification of circular business models. Image source Sitra et al. (2019).   
1.2 Service design 
Services are critical in transitioning from an extractive make-take-waste economy toward a CE. They are 
inseparable elements of the product-service-systems and shared CBMs (Tamminen et al., 2020). 
Furthermore, services can unlock the full potential of CBMs with digitalisation and enable the 
development of radically new supply chain services (ibid).  
A critical element in developing new circular services is the design approach, which can, with a problem 
solving methodological approach, reduce the impact on the environment by 80% in the first stages of the 
design process and 20% in the implementation stage (European Commission, 2021). The design has 
recently focused on investigating the transformative role of services to build a more sustainable and 
equitable society (Sangiorgi, 2010).  
With the transition from the manufacturing to the service industry, companies began to adopt SD as an 
innovative performance approach, enhancing customer experiences and aggregate organisational 
efficiency (Lee et al., 2021). Lee et al. (2021) report that SD methodology and implementation are 
amplified in organisations; however, research looking at factors that affect organisational innovation and 
performance via SD were not. SD methodology considers SD aspects that enhance customer satisfaction, 
needs and business context that emphasise existing competencies (ibid). Furthermore, SD entails 
consistency and the implementation complexity between customers and businesses. SD applies 
approaches to assess customers, products, spaces, and communications processes that affect customers’ 
experience when using the service. It evaluates processes, journeys, interactions, and systems used to 
conduct customer-centred experiences and capture the stakeholders’ needs (Lee et al., 2021). Therefore, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
688 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
SD can provide customers with holistic and valuable service experiences by addressing challenges through 
creative and collaborative design tools (ibid).  
Lee et al., 2020 indicate that SD assists organisations in obtaining higher productivity by improving or 
innovating existing services to be more resourceful and operational. SD within the organisation develops 
strategies, proposes innovative service concepts and solutions, and changes the culture to a more 
customer than an organisation focused.  
Although Schneider et al. (2011) define SD as a reiterative process that can design, assess, measure and 
redesign services, the author identified limited cases where SD was utilised as an assessment approach. 
Marquez & Downey (2015) used SD for service assessment and creation in the library environment. 
Harmaala (2021) adopted SD and BM innovation to develop, test and validate the new CBM. Bocken, 
Miller & Evans (2016), to assess the CBM environmental impact, developed and employed the rapid 
circularity assessment approach for evaluating the environmental impact of new CBM ideas. Hoffmann, 
de Simone Morais, & Teodoro (2020) utilised Life Cycle Assessment to assess the environmental 
performance of two different types of diapers. Finally, Lüdeke-Freund et al. (2017) propose a 
sustainability-oriented business model assessment (SUST-BMA).  
Prendeville & Bocken (2017) state several synergies between SD and BM innovation. SD with a human-
centred approach can foster behavioural change essential for developing SBM innovation. SD can create 
new concepts focused on value co-creation with an iterative process, resulting in meaningful and holistic 
customer experiences (Sierra-Pérez, 2021). SD enables value co-creation with various actors, 
stakeholders, decision-makers, and policymakers by understanding their needs, wishes, requirements, 
and context. SD utilises a set of tools: personas, customer service journey, service blueprints, storyboards, 
stakeholders map, experience prototyping in a co-design setting  (Yu & Sangiorgi, 2014). Giga map, a rich 
picture and service ecology when dealing with complexity (Sustar & Mattelmäki, 2017). This way, SD can 
foster systemic innovation (Sangiorgi & Junginger, 2015) on the ecosystem level (Vink et al., 2021). Finally, 
positioning user experiences at its core can lead to innovative services, sustainable behavioural change 
and environmental sustainability (Sierra-Pérez, 2021).  
2. Methodology  
2.1 Design of research  
The pilot sustainability assessment process lasted from April to June 2020 and from January to March 
2021 and had two parts: the first part, the analysis of CBM with reporting and the second part, the 
redesign of CBM. In the first part, an analysed sample contained 16 Finnish companies with four different 
CBM, selected from the SITRA’s website of Finland’s circular companies (Sitra, 2020). Selected company 
cases were analysed as a part of an online introductory SD course for professionals at Aalto Open 
University. The second redesign part of the case companies’ services happened at the virtual workshop 
adopting a circular venture template or Circularity Deck template (Konietzko, Bocken & Hultink, 2020). 
The qualitative data analysis had two stages: first, collecting qualitative data from the Blogger and study 
case by case utilising within-case analysis (Eisenhardt, 1989) to gain familiarity with the individual case 
data; and second, analysing collected text utilising cross-case pattern search using divergent techniques 
(ibid), to look beyond particular case by identifying categories of the prevailing themes and search for 
within unique themes for case similarities and differences.   

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
689 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2.2 Cases  
The representative case selection of circular companies was made from the Finnish Innovation Fund - 
Sitra’s website (2020) of the best Finnish circular companies (Eisenhardt, 2007). A selected set of cases 
consisted of 16 different Finnish companies from nine industries: transport, lightning, construction, 
renewable energy, textile industry, chemical, ecological composites, IT, and retail. The selected case 
companies’ size spanned from start-ups in the early stages of their circular production (n=6), SMEs (n=5), 
to global enterprises (n=5). Selected companies had the following CBM: 1) resource efficiency and 
recycling (n=4); product life extension (n=3); sharing platforms (n=5); and product as a service (n=4) (for 
more info, see table 1). 
 
Table 1: Overview of company cases.  
2.3 Methodological approach  
The case companies’ CBMs sustainability assessment was conducted during three online SD courses for 
professionals with 2 ECTS at Aalto Open University, Finland. Alongside adopting a particular set of design 
tools in case analysis, for five weeks, professionals received lectures covering SD and CE, systemic design, 
strategic design, value co-creation, co-design, and human-centred design, experience design theoretical 
themes and explanation of two CE theories. Finally, participants also read a selection of supporting 
academic publications weekly.  
The first sustainability assessment part aimed to understand the company's CBM and related 
products/services from different perspectives to identify possible improvements addressed in the virtual 
co-creative workshop. During the pilot study, professionals were divided into six groups with 3-4 
members. Each group assessed one company case by adopting a set of design tools from system design 
(service ecology, stakeholder map), strategic design (Planet Centred Design tools by Vincit, strategy 
foresight), SD (persona, blueprint, customer service journey), experience design (customer service 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
690 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
experiences journey), and value co-creation (value mapping tool by Nesta). Furthermore, in the case 
assessment, professionals applied two theoretical models: the concept of planetary boundaries 
associated with CE strategies (Desing et al., 2020) and changing values in different economic systems 
(Brand & Rocchi, 2011). Participants reported their CBM sustainability assessment findings in weekly blog 
post assignments on a private Google Blogger website. The numerous implemented tools enabled 
assessment of the cases service life cycle, internal organisational processes from start to end, circular 
services back and front stage operations, communications with customers, the quality of customer 
experiences, customers’ segments and companies’ future strategic developments. Professionals gathered 
cases data from companies’ websites, online sustainability reports, blog posts and social media. Some 
professionals contacted the companies but with limited success.  
In the second redesigning services co-design workshop, companies’ cases services propositions were 
redesigned. New SD concepts were developed at a 4-hour virtual workshop, adopting a redesigned 
circular venture template by IDEO or Circularity Deck template (See figure 4) consisting of five circular 
strategies at three different levels: product/service, BM, and ecosystem addressing identified issues in the 
analysis stage (Konietzko, Bocken & Hultink, 2020).     
 
Figure 2: Example of a CBM template application when analysing the C12 company case. 
First, products/services level innovation developed new products/service concepts propositions (for 
example, improving customer service experiences touchpoints). Second, business-level innovation 
redesigned companies’ service offerings, including new CBMs proposals (for example, instead of selling 
lightning equipment, offer lightning as a service). Last, professionals proposed new collaborations and 
interactions on the ecosystem level to achieve better outcomes, such as asymmetrical collaborations of 
sharing experiences, data, and knowledge. Due to the limited pace author presents in the result section 
only the most relevant results concerning companies’ CBMs.     

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
691 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2.4 Data analysis procedure  
The data analysis procedure had the following stages: First, the individual case text was transferred from 
Blogger into Microsoft Word with belonging templates (Figure 2) and Excel tables excluding templates. 
This way, organised data-enabled within-case analysis and cross-case pattern search (Eisenhardt, 1989). 
Second, when analysing both text formats, unique themes were identified and transferred into the Mural 
– an online whiteboard application divided into three levels product/service, BM and ecosystem. Then, 
the author extracted the neutral statements and positive statements from the text and placed them close 
before identifying unique themes. Lastly, the unique themes of SD concepts were identified and placed on 
the Mural, following the SD concepts (see Figure 3). Mural enabled the cross-case pattern visualisation 
between different unique themes and unique themes of SD concepts.     
 
Figure 3: The cross-case pattern visualisation of unique themes, statements and unique themes of SD 
concepts and SD concepts placed in three levels.  
 
 
3. The Results   
This section reports results on three CBMs’ sustainability performance themes exposed in the SBMs’ 
literature, which the author aimed to validate in the pilot for the following reasons: 
1. CBMs innovativeness is critical for higher sustainability performance (Schaltegger et al., 2012); 
furthermore, conceptual transformation and internal process improvement positively impact service 
innovation (Lee et al., 2021). Signori et al. 2019 claim that sustainability can be improved through 
innovation and explicit business functions. Adopting a sustainable strategy in the company can lead to 
competitive advantage and significant economic profit. Therefore, companies are increasingly adopting 
sustainability in their SBM. SD can improve existing and innovate services, which are more resourceful 
and operationally sustainable (Lee et al., 2021).     

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
692 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2. Customer experiences are crucial for increasing sustainability in CBMs (Signori et al., 2019). SD’s 
ultimate goal is to provide holistic customer experiences (Lee et al., 2021), which can be systematically 
evaluated with SD tools. Sustainable customer experiences can create holistic value due to customer 
engagement resulting in sensation, feelings, reasonings and behaviours, arousing sustainable stimuli 
based on economic, social and environmental sustainability (Signori et al.2019). 
3. Transparency of the company’s internal (service life cycles processes) and external service processes 
(the supply and value chain, waste management) was selected due to SD’s ability to visualise, assess and 
investigate internal and external organisational services life cycle processes with various SD process tools 
(Lee et al., 2021). Specifically, professionals highlighted these themes in terms of explicit low transparency 
and, therefore, a limited level of sustainability. 
Furthermore, these themes provide a structure for companies’ CBMs’ sustainability assessment, 
specifically when adopting the SD approach. Moreover, professionals highlighted these themes as unique 
and provided neutral or positive statements when assessing CBMs’ sustainability. Each unique theme is 
presented with subthemes and demonstrated with professionals’ views from their blog posts.  
1. Technological innovation  
When considering technological innovation author followed Boons & Lüdeke-Freund’s (2013, p:14) 
definition of when it is beneficial for sustainability performance:    
“Thus, sustainable business models with a focus on technological innovation are market devices that 
overcome internal and external barriers of marketing clean technologies; of significance is the business 
model’s ability to create a fit between technology characteristics and (new) commercialisation approaches 
that both can succeed on given and new markets.” 
Under this unique theme were identified the following subthemes: 
1) The ground-breaking technological innovation of companies’ products/services with high added value 
was identified in eight cases (C1, C3, C5, C6, C8, C12, C16, C19). To illustrate the results, professionals 
reported two exceptional companies cases, both with resource-efficient and recycling CBMs:  
a) “It seems that innovation is already an integral part of C5. A clean-tech C5 has a ground-breaking 
innovative product that solves landfill contamination by recycling alkaline batteries. The product is the 
only foliar fertiliser globally, made from used alkaline batteries appropriate to be used in organic farming. 
Farmers benefit from an environmentally responsible fertilisers alternative.”   
b) “C6 offers unique, patented technology for recycling mixed plastic waste and other hard-to-recycle 
waste streams. The company's unique patented technology allows multiple waste materials to be recycled 
and converted into new ecological composite products.”   
2) Innovative CBMs reinforced with advanced technical innovation were recognised in six cases (C3, C8, 
C12, C15, C16, C19) where professionals noted companies’ position as technologically leading innovators 
enabling companies to develop unique CBMs and service offerings, which have higher sustainability 
performance and user-friendly towards the customer C2B or B2B. To demonstrate,  
a) “C19 offers compressed air-as-a-service provided by environmentally-friendly air compressors. C19 
invoice their customers based on usage, provide remote monitoring, and as the contract ends, machines 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
693 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
are shipped back to the company to be maintained and re-used. C19 is the frontrunner in the industry, 
innovation, and infrastructure.”  
b) “C16, with value-added service innovation, provides a complete solar panel service for customers who 
wish to cover their energy consumption with a solar panel on their roof. C16 remains the equipment owner 
and handles maintenance and production, while the customer pays for the photovoltaic power produced 
on its roof over a contract period. Later, the customer may purchase the power plant and continue to make 
solar power without any separate charges.”  
c) “C3, with resource-efficient and recycling, offers concrete-as-a-service. C3 uses geopolymer concrete 
from other industries, such as mining, energy, pulp and paper. C3 minimises the materials going into 
landfills and the materials used in conventional concrete. C3 products are created as a fit-for-purpose 
recipe for each customer. With a tailored product to the client's specific need, the C3 can maximise the 
product’s secondary waste materials value and life cycle. The company’s circular strategy reduces the 
demand for finite resources in concrete production. C3 licensing business model considers the planetary 
boundaries concept with maximising concrete manufacturing’s resource efficiency and material 
innovation by prolonging the life cycle of their concrete products and offering aids from an environmental, 
economic, and social perspective.“  
3) Lack of product and SD when developing new products/services was explicitly seen in start-ups cases 
C5 and C6, both with resource-efficient and recycling CBM. Observing the company website, professionals 
state that C5 is not yet utilising SD thinking to its most potential. The lack of SD might result in non-
transparent service/product value offerings in four cases (C3, C6, C8, C12). Professionals reported a 
positive C3 case where a service value proposition based on a CBM aimed to reuse waste streams and 
emissions in concrete production.  
2. Customer experiences 
Westin et al. (2022) state that recent quantitative and conceptual models have acknowledged relations 
between stakeholder perceptions of sustainable development, a company’s brand image and customer 
satisfaction. Furthermore, Signori et al. 2019 recognise the need for a sustainable customer experience 
due to customers' requests for products and services concerned with economic, social and environmental 
sustainability. Furthermore, Jiang et al. (2020) findings indicate that sustainable practices improve 
customer evaluations of the service experience. Unfortunately, this was not the case in this pilot. Author 
identified:   
1) Limited customer-oriented services and poor user experience were identified in two cases (C4, C7) 
with sharing platforms and life extension CBMs. Furthermore, companies were unfamiliar with their 
customers' needs in five instances (C3, C5, C6, C12, C13). Nevertheless, user-friendly experiences were 
identified in only three cases (C1, C4, C14) out of 16 analysed all three cases of product life extension 
CBMs.  
To illustrate user-friendly experiences, a professional who tested C1’s product life extension services 
reported a holistic online service experience: “My overall service experience was outstanding, and I would 
highly rate C1’s services as fast, with lower product prices and sustainable service process! What surprised 
me was how fast I could browse, search, decide, and purchase the phone. The whole process of buying a 
refurbished mobile phone took me less than 10 minutes. I received an ordered phone in less than 36h. The 
service was super convenient.”  Nevertheless, on the C1 company website and social media, the 
sustainability aspect of C1’s services in a broader context is barely acknowledged.    

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
694 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Lee et al. 2021 state that customer alignment relates to market positioning. The ability to address the 
customer’s challenges and meet their needs can directly impact process improvement, customer loyalty, 
and corporate performance; however, this was not the case in this pilot.  
2) Unfamiliarity with customers and their needs were identified in nine instances (C3, C4, C5, C6, C7, C9, 
C12, C13, C16). To illustrate, professionals reported  
“The key to C9 benefit is to reach the end-user view to developing products that are more desirable and 
match products with the customer’s needs. Empathy helps to understand the different stakeholders, and 
it also makes it easier to find the hidden customer needs.” 
C16 really aren't even interested in having more customers. For me, this looks like they don’t care about 
customers; they seem to want to operate in B2B, and B2C might be something less interesting for them. 
3) Limited marketing and communication companies’ sustainability know-how was reported in three 
instances (C1, C4, C6). C6 has limited marketing skills, unclear service offerings, and no clear selling 
channels. Consequently, products are not targeted to environmentally aware markets. Moreover, C4 
operates in the manufacturing industry, and its target groups are IT professionals and business leaders; 
therefore, C4 should emphasise innovative business ideas emphasising professionalism, accountability, 
and trustworthiness.  
4) Limited sustainable value communication was identified in four instances (C4, C5, C8, C12). According 
to Viciunaite & Alfnes (2020), if sustainable companies incorporate sustainability information about their 
BM into their value proposition, like resources, activities, and partners, it can be for particular consumer 
segments to add value to the products and services offered by the company. Nevertheless, professionals 
exposed the C12 case:  
“C12's business model is currently linear, and the company does not share their values. The business model 
could be switched to a service (Robotics-as-a-service) rather than a product. C12’s website became evident 
that its communication is IT and product-driven. We started thinking about what alternatives they would 
have to change their communication towards sustainability and provide some new opportunities through 
storytelling.” 
5) Limited communication transparency with customers was reported with B2C customers in two cases 
(C4, C13), with B2B companies in five points (C3, C4, C8, C12, C13) and with B2S stakeholders in one (C12). 
To demonstrate, professionals wrote:  
“How C12 might bring sustainability message across to the audience? For a company related to waste 
management, it is crucial to be transparent and publicly have the essential information on sustainability, 
especially for its customers.”  
3. Transparency of service life cycle, the value and supply chain, and waste 
management  
In their research, Crenna, Gauch, Widmer, Wäger & Hischier (2021) suggest flexible and transparent life 
cycle processes concerning sustainability assessment within the current framework. They developed a life 
cycle for lithium-ion batteries, which has higher transparency in terms of better traceability of the data 
sources at different levels of detail. Nevertheless, when professionals assessed selected CBMs, they 
identified:  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
695 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
1) The haziness of the service life cycle process in six cases (C3, C4, C5, C8, C12, C13). To demonstrate the 
issue, professionals reported:  
a) “C13 should hire a team assisting the company in following sustainable principles. Furthermore, C13 
needs to document and share the manufacturing process, give relevant information to consumers at the 
right time, and have the resources to reply to customer queries.” 
b) “C5 product production and waste management strategy remain unclear. C5 describes and visualises 
the product development process on its website; holistic product manufacturing remains unclear for the 
farmer customer. 
According to Montecchi, Plangger & West (2021, p. 238), “supply chain transparency is the practice of 
disclosing detailed and accurate information about operations and products, such as their origin and 
sourcing, manufacturing processes, costs, and logistics.” Furthermore, Montecchi et al. (2021) state that 
supply chain transparency is operational competence crucial for implanting sustainable principles in 
supply chain management. However, in the pilot, professionals reported:    
2) The haziness of the supply chain in four cases (C3, C4, C8, C16). To exemplify, professionals pointed 
out that although the C8 is transparent on its energy consumption reduction and processes through their 
ISO certifications, C8 can significantly improve the transparency of the production supply chain with new 
lighting solutions, manufacturing process the lights, and the materials, chemicals, and suppliers used in 
the production process. Furthermore, to assess the C16 case, professionals adopted the sustainable 
design strategies tool focusing on reusability, recycling and equity (Acaroglu, 2017). They reported for the 
C16 case the following:     
“Reusability: The production of solar panels is energy consuming and heavy on the environment, so we 
tried to find out whether C16 panels or solar panels, in general, are designed and produced to be reused. 
Are they long-lasting and efficient? Can they either be reused as panels or be disassembled into parts or 
smaller panels after their initial use? Do solar power plants contain other parts that could be reused? What 
happens to the panels after the contract period if they remain in use by the customer. Do they become 
waste, or are they recycled? How can the customer make the most out of the panels also in the future?      
Recycling: Solar panels contain a large amount of non-renewable minerals such as aluminium, silver, 
lithium, tin, copper, silicon and nickel, just to mention a few. The worldwide production of solar panels is 
increasing rapidly […]. High volumes of new panels create greater demand for recycling technologies and 
end-of-life production development.                       
Equity:  Solar panels are often produced in developing countries and require raw materials that are not 
always safely and fairly produced. Where are the raw materials produced and panels manufactured? How 
ethical and fair is the process from raw material to end product? Is solar power available to all in society? 
C16 does not offer that much information on their production process online.”  
Viciunaite & Alfnes (2020) emphasise that as the sustainability of some BM elements is often not seen by 
customers,  the importance of incorporating the value BMs’ segments into a value proposition; therefore, 
the product/service value chain must become more transparent and make pro-social and pro-
environmental elements visible to consumers. Additionaly, Wrålsen, Prieto-Sandoval, Mejia-Villa, O'Born, 
R., Hellström & Faessler (2021) illustrate in several cases the importance of evaluating the product 
(batteries) value chains from a sustainability and transparency perspective to strive for circularity and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
696 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
encouraging the design of CBM for product second use, improved recycling practices, and ways to 
eliminate waste, emissions, and pollution in the value chain. Yet, the professionals identified:  
3) The haziness of the value chain in five cases (C3, C4, C6, C8, C13). Two of identified instances are 
illustrated below:  
a) “C3 value proposition is based on a circular business model aiming to reuse waste streams and reduce 
emissions in concrete production. However, C3 would need to increase the transparency of the value chain 
for the stakeholders and customers by displaying on the website customer references with facts and 
figures.” 
b) “C6 produces products from waste through its patented technology. Still, we lacked references and 
further information on how the technology works or how the three-year payback time has been 
determined.” 
4) Haziness of waste management during production and after use was identified in six cases (C3, C4, C5, 
C8, C12, C13). Only one company out of 16 has a closed loop of product manufacturing, use and recycling 
(C14). Professionals reported, among others, the following instances: 
a) “C5 describes and visualises the product development process on its website; however, holistic product 
manufacturing remains vague to the customer. For example, C5 touchpoints, like batteries collection, 
product delivery to end-users, and fertiliser use in the landfill, remain unknown to potential customers. 
Waste material is mentioned on the C5’s website without explaining the recycling batteries process or 
waste material management strategy. C5’s primary material is 90% recyclable, and contamination of 
landfills can be avoided; however, C5 does not reveal what happens with the 10% remaining material from 
extracting the zinc and manganese used for primary products. Therefore, C5 must create a closed-loop 
system to re-circulate materials after use.”  
b) “C12 reveal little about waste management and end-of-life management of their machinery despite 
operating in the recycling industry.“ 
c) “C8 provide limited information about the replaced lightning fixtures and how these are recycled. 
Therefore, those parts of the service business model cannot be evaluated towards the concept of the 
planetary boundaries.” 
4. Discussion  
The paper contributes to the conference theme and session by utilising SD as an alternative sustainability 
assessment approach to investigate how sustainable are pertinent CBMs in innovation, sustainability of 
customer experiences and transparency of service life cycle, value chain, supply chain, and waste 
management in CBMs. Utilising SD as a sustainability approach in these areas can offer a complete picture 
of elements connecting to the actual sustainability performance of CBMs through:   
1. Innovation is crucial for sustainable organisational development and, therefore, higher sustainability of 
CBMs.  
2. Sustainable customer and employees experiences on a human level are linked to the advanced 
organisational sustainability and  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
697 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
3. Transparent companies’ internal and external processes indicate high organisational sustainability.   
If SBMs literature provides extensive benefits of high sustainable performance for the organisation, 
unfortunately, a pilot does not confirm this apart from high groundbreaking technological innovation 
(n=8). The result partly differs from Hofmann’s (2019) and Kennedy & Bocken’s (2020) claim CBMs' 
technological innovativeness and the opportunity for fundamental change. The pilot also identified (n=6) 
companies’ technologically advanced innovations supported with unique CBMs and sustainable service 
offerings with higher sustainability performance. These companies combine technological innovation with 
BM innovation to achieve high sustainability performance.  
Evaluating customer experiences, which are crucial drives for sustainable development (Westin et al., 
2022), reviled three holistic, user-friendly experiences product life extension CBMs out of 16 analysed 
cases. Moreover, Jiang et al. (2022) indicate that sustainable practices improve customer evaluations of 
the service experience. Yet, the pilot stated limited customer-oriented services, reduced user experiences 
(n=5), and unfamiliarity with the customer and their needs (n=9). These findings also confirm Nußholz 
2017; Gaziulusoy & Brezet 2015; Bradey et al. (2020) CBMs’ user practices limitations; that way, CBMs 
have limited transitions toward sustainability. Last, companies do not fully communicate sustainable 
values of product/services production (n=4) with customers (n=2), companies (n=5) and stakeholders 
(n=1).   
When assessing the CBM’s transparency of service life cycle, value and supply chain, and waste 
management, a pilot demonstrates the haziness of the service life cycle in a product/service production 
process (n=6), supply chain (n=4), value chain (n=5), and waste management (n=6). Results confirm 
Hofmann’s (2019); Kennedy & Bocken’s (2020) claim of current CBMs' placement in the business logic of 
the Anthropocene, leaving significant production and consumption operations challenges unsolved 
(Boons & Lüdeke-Freund 2013). Furthermore, the pilot confirmed CBMs’ ecological and social impact and 
behaviour change to be indefinite (Hofmann, 2019; Bocken et al., 2014; Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013), 
as only one case (C14) out of 16 professionals reported a positive impact on the environment and society. 
Equally, due to the limited sample, the pilot study could not demonstrate the lower environmental impact 
of CBMs (Tukker, 2004). Last but not least, professionals exposed CBMs companies’ dependency on linear 
industry waste (n=5), also recognised by Tamminen et al. (2020).     
The research gap concerned the CBMs' sustainability assessment in CBMs innovation increasing 
sustainability, sustainable customer experiences and CBM’s transparency of service life cycle, supply and 
value chain, and waste management reviled the appropriateness of SD as a sustainable assessment 
approach, particularly in listed areas.  Concerning adopting SD as a sustainability assessment tool, 
according to Prendeville & Bocken's (2017) definition, SD is the planning process for organising people, 
technology, and materials to enhance the quality of interaction between a customer and provider. It can 
be established that SD is a relevant sustainability assessment tool, particularly in assessing sustainability 
performance concerning CBMs innovation, sustainable service experiences and transparency of internal 
organisational processes of the service lifecycle, the supply and value chain and waste management. 
However, an author would recommend using SD alongside established assessment tools (Bocken, Miller 
& Evans, 2016; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2017; Hoffmann, de Simone Morais, & Teodoro, 2020).    
5. Conclusion    

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
698 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
This paper contributes to the conference theme and session by addressing the research gap concerning 
the CBMs' sustainability assessment, utilising the SD approach in innovation being crucial for sustainable 
business development enabling greater sustainability of CBMs; in sustainable customer experiences level, 
allowing progressive organisational sustainability, and transparency in companies’ internal and external 
processes indicate high sustainability processes area. These themes were selected because of SBMs’ 
academic literature critics concerning CBMs’ limited sustainability performance and because they provide 
a holistic structure for sustainability assessment in the CBMs’ innovation; customers, employees and 
stakeholders’ sustainable experiences, and organisational internal and external processes transparency 
aspects of companies' CBMs’ when utilising SD as a sustainability assessment approach.  
To answer the RQ, how sustainable are CBMs across different industries when adopting SD as a 
sustainability assessment approach, the short answer would be partly. When assessing sustainability with 
the SD approach, this revealed high technological innovation, which reinforced the development of the 
innovative CBMs. The other two areas, sustainable customer experiences and transparency of service life 
cycle, the value and supply chain and waste management, demonstrate clear limitations of CBMs 
sustainability development and, therefore, lower sustainability performance (see Figure 4).    
 
Figure 4: Diagram visualises results from the pilot study assessing sustainability in pertinent CBMs when 
adopting the SD approach.   
This paper is unique, and it brings value to the SBMs field by utilising SD and proving proof of its 
appropriateness as a sustainability assessment tool in CBMs, which has not been done before, by 
assessing CBMs innovation, sustainable customer experiences, and internal and external organisational 
life cycle processes. Then, with theoretical contributions of conforming or opposing the constructive 
critique of the CBMs’ sustainability, supported by relevant qualitative research results from the pilot 
study.  
It seems that CBMs could minimise material input and outflow from the economic system and play a 
crucial role in utilising the resources and capabilities of the private sector towards the transition to more 
sustainable economic development. Nevertheless, the growing prominence of the CBM concept in 
research and practice demonstrates considerable uncertainty on how to implement pertinent CBMs in 
the current global economy (Galvão, Homrich, Geissdoerfer, Evans, Scoleze Ferrer & Carvalho, 2020).   

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
699 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The pilot study has three limitations: first, despite professionals utilising websites, companies’ sustainable 
development reports, social media in accessing the companies’ cases, they did not have direct access to 
companies; second, professionals who performed the analysis were not researchers but were experts in 
their field; and third, the cases sample was too small to make sustainability comparisons between 
different types of CBMs.  
References  
-  Abideen, A.Z., Pyeman, J., Sundram, V.P.K., Tseng, M.L. and Sorooshian, S., (2021) Leveraging Capabilities of 
Technology into a Circular Supply Chain to Build Circular Business Models: A State-of-the-Art Systematic 
Review. Sustainability, 13(16), p.8997. Available from: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13168997 [Acessed 8th of 
April 2022]. 
- Acaroglu, L., 7/9/2017 Tools for Systems Thinkers: The 6 Fundamental Concepts of Systems Thinking, Available from: 
https://medium.com/disruptive-design/tools-for-systems-thinkers-the-6-fundamental-concepts-of-
systems-thinking-379cdac3dc6a [Acessed 15th of February 2022]. 
- Adams, R., Jeanrenaud, S., Bessant, J., Denyer, D. & Overy, P. (2016) Sustainability‐oriented innovation: A 
systematic review. International Journal of Management Reviews, 18(2), 180-205. Available 
from:  https://doi.org/10.1111/ijmr.12068 [Acessed 3th of February 2022]. 
- Atasu, A., Dumas, C. & Van Wassenhove, L.N., (2021) The Circular Business Model. Pick a Strategy that Fits Your 
Resources and Capabilities. Harvard business review from the Magazine (July–August 2021). Available from: 
https://hbr. org/2021/07/the-circular-business-model [Acessed 5th of February 2022]. 
- Baldassarre, B., Calabretta, G., Bocken, N., Diehl, J.C. & Duygu, K. (2019) The evolution of the Strategic role of 
Designers for Sustainable Development. In: Academy for Design Innovation Management Conference 2019: 
Research 
Perspectives 
in 
the 
era 
of 
Transformations, 
1-15. 
Available 
from: 
https://pure.tudelft.nl/ws/portalfiles/portal/54763877/Track_4.f_Strategic_The_evolution_of_the_Strate
gic_role_of_Designers_for_Sustainable_Development_228Baldassarr_a.pdf [Acessed 7th of February 
2022]. 
- Bakker, C., Wang, F., Huisman, J. & Den Hollander, M. (2014) Products that go round: exploring product life 
extension 
through 
design. Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 69, 
10-16. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2014.01.028 [Acessed 9th of February 2022]. 
- Baumgartner, R.J. & Rauter, R. (2017) Strategic perspectives of corporate sustainability management to develop a 
sustainable 
organisation. Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 140, 
81-92. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.04.146 [Acessed 9th of January 2022]. 
- Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P. and Evans, S., (2013) A value mapping tool for sustainable business 
modelling. Corporate Governance. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1108/CG-06-2013-0078 [Acessed 8th 
of April 2022]. 
- Bocken, N., Miller, K. & Evans, S. (2016) Assessing the environmental impact of new Circular business 
models. Proceedings of the “New Business Models”—Exploring a Changing View on Organizing Value 
Creation, 
Toulouse, 
France, 1, 
16-17. 
Available 
from: 
file:///Users/helenasustar/Downloads/AssessingtheenvironmentalimpactofnewCircularbusinessmodels_F
INAL.pdf [Acessed 14th of January 2022]. 
- Bocken, N.M., Schuit, C.S. & Kraaijenhagen, C. (2018) Experimenting with a circular business model: Lessons from 
eight 
cases. Environmental 
innovation 
and 
societal 
transitions, 28, 
79-95. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eist.2018.02.001 [Acessed 9th of January 2022]. 
- Bond, A., Morrison-Saunders, A. and Pope, J., (2012) Sustainability assessment: the state of the art. Impact 
Assessment 
and 
Project 
Appraisal, 30(1), 
53-62. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1080/14615517.2012.661974 [Acessed 1st of April 2022]. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
700 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
- Boons, F. and Lüdeke-Freund, F., (2013) Business models for sustainable innovation: state-of-the-art and steps 
towards 
a 
research 
agenda. Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 45, 
9-19. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2012.07.007 [Acessed 2nd of April 2022]. 
- Brand, R. & Rocchi, S. (2011) Rethinking value in a changing landscape. A model for strategic reflection and business 
transformation. A Philips Design paper. Available from: file:///Users/helenasustar/Downloads/Paradigms-
RethinkingValue.pdf [Acessed 11th of January 2022]. 
- Centobelli, P., Cerchione, R., Del Vecchio, P., Oropallo, E. and Secundo, G., (2021) Blockchain technology for bridging 
trust, traceability and transparency in circular supply chain. Information & Management, p.103508. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2021.103508 [Acessed 8th of April 2022]. 
- Crenna, E., Gauch, M., Widmer, R., Wäger, P. and Hischier, R., (2021) Towards more flexibility and transparency in 
life cycle inventories for Lithium-ion batteries. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 170, p.105619. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2021.105619 [Acessed 8th of April 2022]. 
- Dentchev, N., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, R., Nyberg, T., Tang, X., van Hoof, 
B. & Jonker, J. (2018) Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field of research and 
a 
future 
research 
agenda. Journal 
of 
cleaner 
production, 194, 
695-703. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.05.156 [Acessed 11th of January 2022]. 
- Devuyst, D., (1999) Sustainability assessment: the application of a methodological framework. Journal of 
environmental 
assessment 
policy 
and 
management, 1(04), 
459-487. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1142/S1464333299000351 [Acessed 1st of April 2022]. 
- Devuyst, D., (2001) Introduction to sustainability assessment at the local level. In How green is the city? 1-36. 
Columbia University Press, Available from: https://doi.org/10.7312/devu11802-intro [Acessed 1st of April 
2022]. 
- De Wit, M., Hoogzaad, J., Ramkumar, S., Friedl, H. & Douma, A. (2018) The Circularity Gap Report: An analysis of 
the circular state of the global economy. Circle Economy: Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Available from: 
https://pacecircular.org/sites/default/files/2020-01/Circularity%20Gap%20Report%202018_0.pdf 
[Acessed 10th of February 2022]. 
- Desing, H., Brunner, D., Takacs, F., Nahrath, S., Frankenberger, K. & Hischier, R. (2020) A circular economy within 
the planetary boundaries: towards a resource-based, systemic approach. Resources, Conservation and 
Recycling, 155, p.104673. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2019.104673 [Accessed 8th 
February 2022]. 
- Enkvist, P-A. & Klevnäs, P. (2018) The Circular Economy a Powerful Force for Climate Mitigation Transformative 
innovation 
for 
prosperous 
and 
low-carbon 
industry, 
Material 
Economics. 
Available 
from: 
  
https://media.sitra.fi/2018/06/12132041/the-circular-economy-a-powerful-force-for-climate-
mitigation.pdf [Acessed 9th of February 2022]. 
- Eisenhardt, K.M. (1989) Building theories from case study research. Academy of management review, 14(4), 532-
550. Available from: https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1989.4308385 [Acessed 9th of February 2022]. 
- Eisenhardt, K.M. & Graebner, M.E. (2007) Theory building from cases: Opportunities and challenges. Academy of 
management journal, 50(1), 25-32. Available from: https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2007.24160888 [Acessed 
9th of February 2022]. 
- 
European 
Commission 
(23/6/2021) 
Sustainable 
Product 
Policy, 
Available 
from 
https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/research-topic/sustainable-product-policy [Accessed 12th of February 2022].  
- Galvão, G.D.A., Homrich, A.S., Geissdoerfer, M., Evans, S., Scoleze Ferrer, P.S. and Carvalho, M.M., (2020) Towards 
a value stream perspective of circular business models. Resources, conservation and recycling, 162, 
p.105060. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2020.105060 [Acessed 7th of April 2022]. 
- Guldmann, E. and Huulgaard, R.D., (2019) Circular business model innovation for sustainable development. 
In Innovation for Sustainability 77-95. In N. Bocken et al. (eds.), Innovation for Sustainability, Palgrave 
Studies in Sustainable Business In Association with Future Earth, Springer. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-97385-2_5 [Accessed 15th January 2020]. 
- Halla, P., Binder, C.R., Wyss, R. and Massaro, E., 2020. Sustainability assessment: introduction and 
framework. Sustainability assessment of urban systems. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp.7-29.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
701 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
- Hofmann, F. (2019) Circular business models: business approach as driver or obstructer of sustainability 
transitions?. Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 224, 
361-374. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.03.115 [Accessed 4th of January 2022]. 
- Hoffmann, B.S., de Simone Morais, J. & Teodoro, P.F. (2020) Life cycle assessment of innovative circular business 
models for modern cloth diapers. Journal of cleaner production, 249, p.119364. Available from 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.119364 [Accessed 6th of January 2022]. 
- Harmaala, Minna-Maari (2021) Transition from linear to circular business models with service design methodology 
to 
drive 
innovation 
and 
growth. 
HHBIC 
2020, 
17–18.11.2020, 
Online. 
 
Available 
from: 
 https://esignals.fi/research/en/2021/02/22/transition-from-linear-to-circular-business-models-
with-service-design-methodology-to-drive-innovation-and-growth/#e3946ea5 [Acessed 10th of February 
2022]. 
- Jain, R., Aagja, J. and Bagdare, S., 2017. Customer experience–a review and research agenda. Journal of Service 
Theory and Practice. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1108/JSTP-03-2015-0064 [Acessed 3rd of April 
2022]. 
- Jiang, W., Wang, L. and Zhou, K.Z., 2022. Green Practices and Customer Evaluations of the Service Experience: The 
Moderating Roles of External Environmental Factors and Firm Characteristics. Journal of Business Ethics, 1-
17. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-022-05044-x [Acessed 2nd of April 2022]. 
- Kennedy, S. & Bocken, N. (2020) Innovating business models for sustainability: An essential practice for responsible 
managers. In Research Handbook of Responsible Management. Edward Elgar Publishing. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.4337/9781788971966.00053 [Acessed 10th of February 2022]. 
- Kiørboe, N. (2015) Moving Towards a Circular Economy: Successful Nordic Business Models, Policy Brief. Nordic 
Council 
of 
Ministers. 
Available 
from: 
http://norden.diva-
portal.org/smash/get/diva2:852029/FULLTEXT01.pdf from [Acessed 9th of February 2022]. 
- Konietzko, J., Bocken, N. & Hultink, E.J. (2020) A tool to analyze, ideate and develop circular innovation 
ecosystems. Sustainability, 12(1), 417. Available from: https://doi.org/10.3390/su12010417 [Acessed 11th 
of February 2022]. 
- Lacy, P. & Rutqvist, J. (2016) Waste to wealth: The circular economy advantage. Springer. 
- Lee, S., Oh, H.Y. and Choi, J., 2021. Service design management and organizational innovation 
performance. Sustainability, 13(1), 4. Available from: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13010004 [Acessed 1st of 
April 2022]. 
- Linder, M. & Williander, M., (2017) Circular business model innovation: inherent uncertainties. Business strategy 
and the environment, 26(2), 182-196. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.1906 [Acessed 11th of 
February 2022]. 
- Lüdeke-Freund, F., Freudenreich, B., Schaltegger, S., Saviuc, I. & Stock, M. (2017) Sustainability-oriented business 
model assessment—A conceptual foundation. In Analytics, innovation, and excellence-driven enterprise 
sustainability, 
169-206. 
Palgrave 
Macmillan, 
New 
York. 
Available 
from: 
https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1057%2F978-1-137-37879-8_7.pdf [Acessed 10th of February 
2022]. 
- Mager, Sistig, M. Chen, Y. Ruiz, K. & Corona, C. (2020) The Future of Service Design, KISD. Available 
from:  file:///Users/helenasustar/Downloads/The_Future_of_Service_Design.pdf [Acessed 10th of January 
2022]. 
- Marquez, J. & Downey, A. (2015) Service design: An introduction to a holistic assessment methodology of library 
services. Weave: 
Journal 
of 
Library 
User 
Experience, 1(2). 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.3998/weave.12535642.0001.201 [Acessed 11th of February 2022]. 
- Montecchi, M., Plangger, K. and West, D.C., 2021. Supply chain transparency: A bibliometric review and research 
agenda. International 
Journal 
of 
Production 
Economics, 238, 
p.108152. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2021.108152 [Acessed 7th of April 2022]. 
- Ostrom, A.L., Parasuraman, A., Bowen, D.E., Patrício, L. & Voss, C.A. (2015) Service research priorities in a rapidly 
changing 
context. Journal 
of 
service 
research, 18(2), 
127-159. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1094670515576315 [Acessed 10th of January 2022]. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
702 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
- Osterwalder, A. & Pigneur, Y. (2002) Business models and their elements. In Position paper for the international 
workshop 
on 
business 
models, 
Lausanne, 
Switzerland. 
Available 
from: 
http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.458.6564&rep=rep1&type=pd [Acessed 10th of 
January 2022]. 
- Pope, J., Annandale, D. and Morrison-Saunders, A., 2004. Conceptualising sustainability assessment. Environmental 
impact assessment review, 24(6), 595-616. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eiar.2004.03.001  
[Acessed 1st of April 2022]. 
- Prendeville, S. & Bocken, N. (2017) Sustainable business models through service design. Procedia Manufacturing, 8, 
292-299. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.promfg.2017.02.037 [Acessed 11th of January 2022]. 
- Rauter, R., Zimek, M., Baumgartner, R.J. and Schöggl, J.P., (2019) Assessing the impact of sustainable business 
models: Challenges, key issues and future research opportunities. In Innovation for sustainability pp. 253-
269. In N. Bocken et al. (eds.), Innovation for Sustainability, Palgrave Studies in Sustainable Business In 
Association with Future Earth, Springer, Available from: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-97385-2_5 
[Accessed 15th of January 2020]. 
- Ritala, P., Huotari, P., Bocken, N., Albareda, L. & Puumalainen, K. (2018) Sustainable business model adoption 
among S&P 500 firms: A longitudinal content analysis study. Journal of Cleaner Production, 170, 216-226. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.09.159 [Acessed 11th of January 2022]. 
- Sangiorgi, D. (2010) Transformative services and transformation design. In Service Design and Service Innovation 
Conference, 
65-76. 
Linköping 
University 
Electronic 
Press. 
Available 
from:https://re.public.polimi.it/retrieve/handle/11311/968237/275747/transformative%20services%20a
nd%20transformation%20design.pdf [Acessed 5th of January 2022]. 
- Sangiorgi, D. & Junginger, S., (2015) Emerging issues in service design. The Design Journal, 18(2), 165-170. Available 
from: 
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.2752/175630615X14212498964150?casa_token=ItKOQbMrBg
4AAAAA:jQAm70Dp3Dxcelrf90maatlE211EreFqMYwmjxE2Sp7T-hYS4UQFojkB8G4jrdCxJZDj1bJveavG 
[Acessed 4th of January 2022]. 
- Shapira, H., Ketchie, A. & Nehe, M. (2017) The integration of design thinking and strategic sustainable 
development. Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 140, 
277-287, 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.10.092 [Acessed 6th of January 2022]. 
- Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business models for sustainability: Origins, present 
research, 
and 
future 
avenues. Organization 
& 
Environment, 29(1), 
3-10. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1086026615599806 [Acessed 7th of January 2022]. 
- Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Hansen, E.G., (2012) Business cases for sustainability: the role of business 
model innovation for corporate sustainability. International journal of innovation and sustainable 
development, 6(2), 
95-119. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Erik-Hansen-
12/publication/256013169_Business_Cases_for_Sustainability_The_Role_of_Business_Model_Innovation
_for_Corporate_Sustainability/links/53cf7b530cf25dc05cfaf95c/Business-Cases-for-Sustainability-The-
Role-of-Business-Model-Innovation-for-Corporate-Sustainability.pdf  [Acessed 2nd of April 2022]. 
- Sierra-Pérez, J., Teixeira, J.G., Romero-Piqueras, C. & Patrício, L., (2021) Designing sustainable services with the 
ECO-Service design method: Bridging user experience with environmental performance. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 305, 127228. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.127228 [Acessed 8th of 
January 2022]. 
- Signori, P., Gozzo, I., Flint, D.J., Milfeld, T. and Satinover Nichols, B., (2019) Sustainable customer experience: 
bridging theory and practice. In A. Thrassou et al. (eds.), The Synergy of Business Theory and Practice, 
Palgrave Studies in Cross-disciplinary Business Research, In Association with EuroMed Academy of Business. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-17523-8_7 [Acessed 2nd of April 2022]. 
- Sitra, Technology Industries of Finland and Accenture Strategy (2019) Circular economy business models for the 
manufacturing 
industry 
Circular 
Economy 
Playbook 
for 
Finnish 
SMEs. 
Available 
from: 
https://teknologiateollisuus.fi/sites/default/files/inline-

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
703 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
files/20180919_Circular%20Economy%20Playbook%20for%20Manufacturing_v1%200.pdf [Acesssed on 
22nd of January 2022]. 
- Sitra (2020) Most interesting companies in the circular economy in Finland 2.1. Available from: 
https://www.sitra.fi/en/projects/interesting-companies-circular-economy-finland/, [Acesssed on 22nd of 
January 2022]. 
- Stickdorn, M., Schneider, J., Andrews, K. & Lawrence, A. (2011) This is service design thinking: Basics, tools, 
cases (Vol. 1). Hoboken, Wiley. 
- Stoknes, P.E. (2021) Tomorrow's economy: A guide to creating healthy green growth. Cambridge, MIT Press. 
- Sustar, H. & Mattelmäki, T. (2017) Whole in one: Designing for empathy in complex systems. Nordes, 7(1). Available 
from: file:///Users/helenasustar/Downloads/531-1113-1-SM%20(2).pdf [Acesssed on 2nd of January 2022]. 
- Tamminen, S., Sell, M., Forslund, T., Tipping, A., Soprana, M. & Bellmann, C. (2020) Trading Services for a Circular 
Economy. Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland and the International Institute for Sustainable 
Development, 
International 
Institute 
for 
Sustainable 
Development, 
Available 
from: 
https://media.sitra.fi/2020/10/26132739/trading-services-for-a-circular-economy.pdf [Acesssed on 22nd of 
January 2022]. 
- Tukker, A. (2004) Eight types of product-service system: eight ways to sustainability? Experiences from 
SusProNet. Business 
strategy 
and 
the 
environment, 13(4), 
246-260. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.414 [Acessed on 6th of January 2022]. 
- Therivel, R., Wilson, E., Thompson, S., Heaney, D. & Pritchard, D. (1992) Strategic Environmental Assessment. 
London: Earthscan. 
- Viciunaite, V. and Alfnes, F., (2020) Informing sustainable business models with a consumer preference 
perspective. Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 242, 
p.118417. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.118417 [Acessed 7th of April 2022]. 
- Vegter, D., van Hillegersberg, J. and Olthaar, M., (2020) Supply chains in circular business models: processes and 
performance objectives. Resources, conservation and recycling, 162, p.105046. Available from 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2020.105046 [Acessed 3rd of April 2022]. 
- Verheem, R., (2002) Recommendations for sustainability assessment in the Netherlands. Commission for EIA. 
Environmental Impact Assessment in the Netherlands. Views from the Commission for EIA in. 
- Vink, J., Koskela-Huotari, K., Tronvoll, B., Edvardsson, B. & Wetter-Edman, K. (2021) Service ecosystem design: 
Propositions, process model, and future research agenda. Journal of Service Research, 24(2), 168-186. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1177/1094670520952537 [Acesssed on 22nd of January 2022]. 
- Westin, L., Hallencreutz, J. and Parmler, J., (2022) Sustainable Development as a Driver for Customer 
Experience. Sustainability, 14(6), p.3505. Available from: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14063505 [Accessed 
2nd of April 2022]. 
- Wrålsen, B., Prieto-Sandoval, V., Mejia-Villa, A., O'Born, R., Hellström, M. and Faessler, B., (2021) Circular business 
models for lithium-ion batteries-Stakeholders, barriers, and drivers. Journal of Cleaner Production, 317, 
p.128393. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.128393 [Accessed 3rd of April 2022]. 
- Yu, E & Sangiorgi, D (2014) Service design as an approach to new service development: reflections and futures 
studies, ServDes.2014. Fourth Service Design and Innovation Conference "Service Futures", Lancaster, 
United Kingdom, 9/04/14 - 11/04/14 pp. 194-204, Available from: http://www.servdes.org/wp/wp-
content/uploads/2014/06/Yu-E-Sangiorgi-D.pdf [Acesssed 22nd of January 2022]. 
- Zhang, D., Huang, X., Wen, Y., Pooja, T. and Shanmugan, J., (2021) Sustainable Circular Business Model for 
Transparency and Uncertainty Reduction in Supply Chain Management. Journal of Theoretical and Applied 
Electronic Commerce Research, 16(4), 959-975. Available from: https://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer16040054 
[Accessed 3rd of April 2022]. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
704 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
From Linear To Circular Supply Chain: 
Insights From Case Study in 
Sustainable Packaging Logistics 
 
Alessandra Cozzolino  
Sapienza University of Rome, Faculty of Economics, Department of 
Management 
alessandra.cozzolino@uniroma1.it  
Abstract 
The debate on the impact of packaging logistics on sustainability has shifted towards a more holistic 
discussion of the impact of the packaging life cycle throughout the entire supply chain, in the research 
stream of circular supply chain management. Since how circular economy systems really work for firms 
around the world is at the very beginning of knowledge development, this paper aims at providing an 
analysis on how to implement and manage innovative projects to shift from linear to circular economy, 
moving from recycling approaches to upcycling solutions, with empirical cases from Fercam Echo Labs.  
Keywords  
Circular supply chain, Sustainability, Upcycling, Logistics Packaging, Packaging Logistics, Wooden Pallets 
and Crates, Social Enterprise 
1. Introduction 
Many authors have emphasised the close relationship between the concepts of “logistics” and 
“packaging” (Garcia-Arca et al., 2014; Azzi et al., 2012 p. 441; García‐Arca and Prado‐Prado, 2008; 
Hellström and Saghir, 2007; Verghese and Lewis, 2007; Saghir, 2002; Lockamy, 1995; Twede, 1992): which 
focuses on the “synergies” achieved by integrating logistics and packaging with the potential of increased 
supply chain efficiency and effectiveness (Vernuccio et al., 2010). Packaging is an integral part of the 
logistical system and plays an important role in the supply chain (Kirwan and Coles, 2011). The link 
between logistics and packaging was initially summarized in the expression “logistical packaging” which 
was used by academics referring to the personalization of packaging useful for logistics (Paine 1990; 
Twede 1992; Twede and Parsons, 1997). This concept does not communicate the full potential of the link 
between logistics and packaging: it was considered more appropriate to use the expression of “packaging 
logistics” which, in addition to focusing on the interface between packaging and logistics systems, 
recognizes the interdisciplinary nature of the packaging itself and fully enhance the interaction among 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
705 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
packaging, logistics and marketing decisions (Saghir, 2004). So that the expression “packaging logistics” 
refers to the integration of packaging design with logistics management, with a particular emphasis on 
strategic aspects (Garcia-Arca et al., 2014; Saghir, 2002; Hellstrom and Saghir, 2007).  
The presence of the packaging along the supply chain is pervasive, both as product itself and as 
combination of product-packaging (Silva and Pålsson, 2022; Massaroni and Cozzolino, 2021; Cozzolino, 
2021). Even more alongside the direct logistical flow (from upstream to downstream) is the return flow 
of packaging and product - reverse / return logistics – that has attracted more attention in the last years 
(Meherishi et al., 2019). This for many reasons, such as the emerging changes in the end-market, in the 
productive context, and in the regulatory framework, all those aspects especially in a sustainable 
perspective; sustainability-focused initiatives around logistics innovation and the need for change in the 
use of packaging are combining also with major industry trends affecting the packaging industry: for 
example, cost pressures, e-commerce and digitization (in general), and shifting consumer preferences 
(Berg et al., 2020). The idea of a sustainable packaging logistics has been growing in academia and 
professional contexts (Massaroni and Cozzolino, 2021; Cozzolino, 2021). The concept of sustainable 
packaging logistics may be connected with a strategic, systemic and holistic view, going beyond a formal 
- accounting, social (and environmental) - responsibility, imposed by rules and regulations, according to a 
sustainability that works “toward a triple helix for value creation, a genetic code for tomorrow’s 
capitalism, spurring the regeneration of our economies, societies, and biosphere” (Elkington, 2018). The 
concept of sustainable packaging logistics is growing, but it is still not easy to univocally define it due to 
the multitude of criteria which should be considered, a large variety of packaging materials, as well as the 
dynamic development of the industry (Kozik, 2020), and with different actors involved and along the 
whole life cycle of the products and of the packaging-product combination (Lindh et al., 2016). In a general 
view, sustainable packaging logistics compared to conventional one, meet higher environmental, 
economic and social standards, have better performance and quality features, and at the same time bring 
new possibilities in the field of the recovery and waste management. These standards should apply to the 
entire packaging life cycle - from production, through packaging, distribution, transport processes, to use 
and disposal along the entire supply chain, in a closed-loop supply chain or also with a circular supply 
perspective (Kozik, 2020). 
In particular, “Circular Supply Chain Management” (CSCM), which integrates the philosophy of the circular 
economy into supply chain management, offers a new and compelling perspective to the supply chain 
sustainability domain (Farooque et al., 2019; Genovese et al., 2017; Nasir et al., 2017); consequently, there 
is increasing research interest in this viewpoint by many authors (Ying and Lijun, 2012; Aminoff and 
Kettunen, 2016; Batista et al., 2018; Bressanelli et al., 2018; De Angelis et al., 2018; Govindan and 
Hasanagic, 2018; Howard et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2018) as underlined by Farooque et al. (2019) in their 
literature review paper. However, research is still at a nascent stage and great potential would be realized 
in this direction (Farooque et al., 2019). Inside this new framework concreate solutions may be developed 
but are still at a beginning phase stage.  
Along this research gap the present paper aims at investigating the following research question: 
RQ – What concrete initiatives are implemented by companies to realize sustainable packaging logistics 
innovations in a circular supply chain perspective? 
To answer to the research question, the rest of the paper is organized as follow: section 2 presents the 
upcycling solution referring to logistics, packaging and sustainability; section 3 describes the case study 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
706 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
on sustainable packaging logistics in a circular supply chain management perspective, with the 
emblematic example of Fercam Echo Labs; in section 4 some conclusive considerations are proposed.  
2. Logistics, packaging and sustainability 
The European Commission adopted the new Circular Economy Action Plan (CEAP) in March 2020, as one 
of the main building blocks of the European Green Deal, the new European agenda for sustainable growth. 
In the document “Circular economy action plan” packaging is placed among the “key product value 
chains”23. 
The integration of Circular Economy into Supply Chain Management has been termed Circular supply 
chain in the literature, and Farooque et al. (2018 p. 884) define “Circular supply chain management” as 
following: “is the integration of circular thinking into the management of the supply chain and its 
surrounding industrial and natural ecosystems. It systematically restores technical materials and 
regenerates biological materials toward a zero-waste vision through system-wide innovation in business 
models and supply chain functions from product/service design to end-of-life and waste management, 
involving all stakeholders in a product/service lifecycle including parts/product manufacturers, service 
providers, consumers, and users”. 
The purpose of CSCM is to lead towards circular supply chains from a linear one (Farooque et al., 2018). 
A linear supply chain extracts resources from the geosphere and the biosphere and disposes products, 
packaging materials, and wastes from multiple supply chain stages; the unwanted items are often 
deposited in landfills (Farooque et al., 2018). A closed loop supply chain improves environmental 
performance by bringing back goods and packaging materials to the producer to recover value (Guide and 
Van Wassenhove, 2006); however, the extent of value recovery in a closed loop supply chain is often 
limited because the efforts are restricted within the original supply chain (producer's supply chain) and 
do not include secondary supply chains and/or involve new channel members (Moula et al., 2017). A 
circular supply chain goes further by recovering value from waste by collaborating with other 
organizations (Farooque et al., 2018), within the industrial sector (open loop, same sector), or with 
different industrial sectors (open loop, cross-sector) (Weetman, 2017). 
In a circular supply chain perspective, an interesting initiative is the upcycling one (Sung et al., 2021). The 
term upcycling originated in the 1990s (Bridgens et al., 2018) and means reuse of discarded objects or 
material in such a way as to create a product of higher quality or value than the original (Wegener, 2016). 
Upcycling has the potential to transform the way we consider individual products, as assemblages of 
functional component modules with multiple life spans rather than complete stand-alone objects with 
singular finite lives (Richardson, 2011). Sung (2015) in a literature review paper described as, despite 
variations among definitions, there are two dominant viewpoints in the analyzed publications: one based 
on material recovery of which the major aim is to maintain value and quality of materials safely in their 
second life and beyond by the improved recycling or remanufacturing; the other focused on product 
(re)creation for higher values and qualities by transforming, repurposing or refashioning waste or used 
materials/products either by companies or by individuals. For industrial upcycling, both as upgraded 
recycling and as remanufacturing, are required specialist skills, equipment, tools, space and time. The area 
of upcycling in a concrete application is relatively new and unexplored. Yet industrial practices – who is 
 
23 https://ec.europa.eu/environment/pdf/circular-economy/new_circular_economy_action_plan.pdf  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
707 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
doing what, when, where and how, and how (un)/successful it is – remained largely unknown (Bridgens 
et al., 2018). 
In this paper, the focus is on packaging as an exemplar of material objects that, whilst carefully designed 
and manufactured, have quite short life spans and little status as objects of value in themselves. Very 
often once packaging served its purpose it is discarded, even though it has not degraded and is still 
functional or have functional materials. These materials discarded may be upcycled into useful objects, 
tailored to the requirements of individual and/or companies, in a circular perspective. The analyzed cases 
are based on circular supply chain solutions for wooden packaging – pallets and crates. Wooden pallets 
are load support that are indispensable for the logistics, transport, handling, and storage of goods in many 
industrial sectors. These pallets are horizontal wooden platforms characterized by a minimum height 
compatible with movement using pallet trucks, forklift trucks and other appropriate handling equipment. 
The wooden pallet supply chain is a complex product network, and the way pallets are managed 
throughout their lifecycle phases produces a notable difference in terms of environmental and economic 
impacts (Tornese et al., 2021; Gnoni et al., 2018). Crates are logistical boxes useful for moving highly value 
products, in this paper in particular they are used for the fine-art transport. Upcycling for pallets and 
crates offers a whole new life for discarded materials, taking a position opposed to un-usability or 
recycling. Recycling is typically accepted as breaking down the original material and making it into 
something else (also using more energy), for pallets or crates for example the typical recycled products 
are mainly chipboard, MDF panels, etcetera. In this specific case of wood, the shredding process 
compromises its very essence and in order to produce new boards, it is necessary to continue deforesting. 
While upcycling preserves the integrity of the material (and is totally energy saving) creating new 
products, often acquiring a greater value than the original object or material, thanks to a creative reuse; 
creative reuse that interrupts the deforestation process.  
3. Case of sustainable packaging logistics in a circular 
supply chain management perspective 
3.1. Methodological approach 
The case study method seems to be the most suitable for this research, whereas the nature of the 
research question requires an exploratory approach (Yin, 2003). The case study methodology is well 
recognized as a valid approach through which to deepen understanding of a phenomenon that is still in 
development and/or for which the dimensions have not yet fully explained (Yin, 2003; Eisenhardt, 1989). 
In particular, logistics researchers have promoted the use of case study analysis as an approach to 
scientific inquiry, and Ellram (1996) declares that case studies are excellent for providing detailed 
explanations of best practices. The cases selected represent best practices on how to implement and 
manage innovative projects for sustainable packaging logistics to shift from linear to circular economy, 
moving from recycling approaches to upcycling solutions along the supply chain. The cases are taken from 
the experience of Fercam, primary Italian family business in transport and logistics sector, that has 
become one of the main logistics services providers in Europe. The analysis is based on desk research from 
the institutional Company’s website, LinkedIn news, and official documents.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
708 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
3.2. Fercam Echo Labs24 
Fercam Echo Labs is a non-profit Social Enterprise: a permanent laboratory, that was born in 2021, which 
works on a more sustainable future for people and the environment. Its mission is to create networks and 
synergies between the Corporate Social Responsibility programs of its clients and partners, which thanks 
to the active participation in the laboratory will be able to carry out projects that individually they could 
not have carried out, preferably starting from the territory in which they manage their activity. It proposes 
itself to them as General Contractor for the realization of sustainable projects.  
Fercam Echo Park, just realized, for example, is one of those projects. The Echo Park is an outdoor 
structure inside the area of the distribution center of Rome, where they have created a break area 
available to employees and indirect collaborators, where they can have lunch or have a coffee break. Two 
obsolete containers, otherwise destined for disposal for the recovery of iron, have been modified, 
repainting them and obtaining openings to make large windows. The non-profit association Linaria was 
identified as a project partner, to design and guide the creation of furnishings and accessory structures 
starting from wooden pallets, flowering plants and plug hotels to welcome solitary bees. The 
woodworking activities were a learning opportunity for a group of 7 political refugees, and with the hours 
of training in eco-carpentry led by the experts of the Laboratorio Linfa, the participants in the project were 
awarded a certificate, which is useful for entering the European world of work. Other complementary 
sustainable activities have been realized inside the structure (for example, with the vending machines).  
Moreover, in the area dedicated to the break area and inside the Company offices, bookcases will be 
installed to encourage reading with voluntary and free bookcrossing initiatives, leaving books available to 
anyone who wants to read them, especially long-haul line drivers, during their long stops, between one 
stage and another. The book will then be able to travel with them, in companies branches or wherever 
they want to leave it. The bookcases will be made by upclycling the wooden crates built for the transport 
of works of art, utilized by Fercam Fine Art. In Fercam Fine Art the internal carpentry activity is one of the 
pillars of artworks handling operations, independently producing, according to specific needs, all the 
crates for transport activities. The legislation that regulates the transfer of cultural assets requires that 
precise rules for packaging materials be respected, so the Company uses very valuable multilayer wood 
panels to manufacture the crates. Whenever possible, they readjust them for subsequent transports, but 
the production needs of new crates still tend to outweigh the opportunities for reuse25. It is a noble wood, 
both for the nature of the material and for its intended use, therefore, it has always been the Company 
priority to find the right methods to re-utilize it, possibly for equally noble purposes. Also, they have 
already re-used the wood from these crates to make kennels for animals, the last of which was recently 
donated to municipal kennel.  
Fercam Echo Labs is realizing with wooden pallets and crates upcycling projects of the implementation of 
sustainability in each of its three dimensions—economic, environmental, and social—simultaneously and 
alongside the supply chain, in a circular perspective.  
Dino Menichetti, Fercam S.p.A. Regional Manager and Fercam Echo Labs President, declares: “In [Fercam] 
corporate activities, corporate social responsibility is of great importance. With Echo Labs we wanted to 
go beyond the Fercam business, to establish a network of collaborations and non-profit partnerships. The 
 
24 Text and contents from https://www.echolabs.fercam.com/it (accessed 19 April 2022) 
25 Text and contents from https://www.fercam.com/en/welcome-1.html (accessed 19 April 2022) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
709 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
synergies created between the CSR programs of the various entities involved will allow each to have an 
even more significant positive impact, under the aegis of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the 
UN 2030 Agenda”26. 
4. Some conclusive considerations 
The debate on the impact of packaging logistics on sustainability has shifted towards a more holistic 
discussion of the impact of the packaging life cycle throughout the entire supply chain, in the research 
stream of circular supply chain management. Since how circular economy systems really work for firms 
around the world is at the very beginning of knowledge development, the paper aims at providing an 
analysis on how to implement and manage innovative projects to shift from linear to circular economy, 
moving from recycling approaches to upcycling solutions. In particular, an empirical case focuses on 
upcycling pilot-projects regarding wooden pallets and crates implemented by Fercam Echo Labs in each 
of three dimensions of sustainability—economic, environmental, and social— simultaneously and 
alongside the supply chain. It describes the starting ideas, how they have been developed, what initiatives 
have followed – also concerning structural organizational decisions and strategic alliances. The case 
represents a best practice inside the sector and the preliminary concrete evidence arising from this 
research would be a starting point for the next research on this topic both at theoretical and empirical 
level. 
References 
Aminoff, A. and Kettunen, O., 2016, April. Sustainable supply chain management in a circular economy—towards 
supply circles. In International Conference on Sustainable Design and Manufacturing (pp. 61-72). Springer, 
Cham. 
Azzi, A., Battini, D., Persona, A. and Sgarbossa, F., 2012. Packaging design: general framework and research 
agenda. Packaging Technology and Science, 25(8), pp.435-456. 
Batista, L., Bourlakis, M., Smart, P. and Maull, R., 2018. In search of a circular supply chain archetype–a content-
analysis-based literature review. Production Planning & Control, 29(6), pp.438-451. 
Berg, P., Feber, D., Granskog, A., Nordigarden, D. and Ponkshe, S., 2020. The drive toward sustainability in 
packaging—beyond 
the 
quick 
wins. Mckinsey 
& 
Company 
(Available 
online: 
https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/paper-forest-products-and-packaging/our-insights/the-drive-
toward-sustainability-in-packaging-beyond-the-quick-wins). 
Bressanelli, G., Perona, M. and Saccani, N., 2019. Challenges in supply chain redesign for the Circular Economy: A 
literature review and a multiple case study. International Journal of Production Research, 57(23), pp.7395-
7422. 
Bridgens, B., Powell, M., Farmer, G., Walsh, C., Reed, E., Royapoor, M., Gosling, P., Hall, J. and Heidrich, O., 2018. 
Creative upcycling: Reconnecting people, materials and place through making. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 189, pp.145-154. 
Cozzolino A., 2021. The logistics functions of packaging: sustainable innovations toward a sustainable supply chain, 
Sinergie-SIMA 2021 Conference “Leveraging intersections in management theory and practice”, 10-11 June 
2021, Palermo (Italy). 
De Angelis, R., Howard, M. and Miemczyk, J., 2018. Supply chain management and the circular economy: towards 
the circular supply chain. Production Planning & Control, 29(6), pp.425-437. 
 
26  https://www.euromerci.it/in-primo-piano/presentate-a-roma-fercam-green-logistics.html (accessed 19 April 
2022) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
710 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Eisenhardt, K.M., 1989. Building theories from case study research. Academy of management review, 14(4), pp.532-
550. 
Elkington, J., 2018. 25 years ago I coined the phrase “triple bottom line.” Here’s why it’s time to rethink it. Harvard 
business review, 25, pp.2-5. 
Ellram, L.M., 1996. The use of the case study method in logistics research. Journal of business logistics, 17(2), p.93. 
Farooque, M., Zhang, A., Thürer, M., Qu, T. and Huisingh, D., 2019. Circular supply chain management: A definition 
and structured literature review. Journal of Cleaner Production, 228, pp.882-900. 
García-Arca, J., Prado-Prado, J.C. and Garrido, A.T.G.P., 2014. “Packaging logistics”: promoting sustainable efficiency 
in supply chains. International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management, 44(4), pp. 325-346. 
García‐Arca, J. and Prado, J.C.P., 2008. Packaging design model from a supply chain approach. Supply Chain 
Management: An International Journal 13(5), pp. 375-380. 
Genovese, A., Acquaye, A.A., Figueroa, A. and Koh, S.L., 2017. Sustainable supply chain management and the 
transition towards a circular economy: Evidence and some applications. Omega, 66, pp.344-357. 
Gnoni, M.G., Tornese, F., Thorn, B.K., Carrano, A.L. and Pazour, J.A., 2018. A measurement tool for circular economy 
practices: a case study in pallet supply chains. 
Govindan, K. and Hasanagic, M., 2018. A systematic review on drivers, barriers, and practices towards circular 
economy: a supply chain perspective. International Journal of Production Research, 56(1-2), pp.278-311. 
Guide Jr, V.D.R. and Van Wassenhove, L.N., 2006. Closed‐loop supply chains: an introduction to the feature issue 
(part 1). Production and Operations Management, 15(3), pp.345-350. 
Hellström, D. and Saghir, M., 2007. Packaging and logistics interactions in retail supply chains. Packaging Technology 
and Science: An International Journal, 20(3), pp.197-216. 
Kirwan, Mark J., and Richard Coles. Food and beverage packaging technology. John Wiley & Sons, 2011. 
Kozik, N., 2020. Sustainable packaging as a tool for global sustainable development. In SHS Web of Conferences (Vol. 
74, p. 04012). EDP Sciences. 
Lockamy, A., 1995. A conceptual framework for assessing strategic packaging decisions. The International Journal of 
Logistics Management, 6(1), pp. 51-60. 
Massaroni E. and Cozzolino A. 2021. Innovazioni logistiche per un packaging sostenibile: aspetti teorici ed evidenze 
empiriche. Rivista di Studi Manageriali – Risma, 1(1), Sapienza Università Editrice, pp. 109-128. 
Meherishi, L., Narayana, S.A. and Ranjani, K.S., 2019. Sustainable packaging for supply chain management in the 
circular economy: A review. Journal of cleaner production, 237, p.117582. 
Moula, M.M.E., Sorvari, J. and Oinas, P., 2017. Introduction: How can circular economy help to construct a more 
sustainable green circular society?. In Constructing A Green Circular Society (pp. 1-5). University of Helsinki. 
Nasir, M.H.A., Genovese, A., Acquaye, A.A., Koh, S.C.L. and Yamoah, F., 2017. Comparing linear and circular supply 
chains: A case study from the construction industry. International Journal of Production Economics, 183, 
pp.443-457. 
Paine, F.A. ed., 1990. The packaging user’s handbook. Springer Science & Business Media. 
Richardson, M., 2011. Design for reuse: Integrating upcycling into industrial design practice. In International 
Conference on Remanufacturing (pp. 1-13). 
Saghir, M., 2002. Packaging information needed for evaluation in the supply chain: the case of the Swedish grocery 
retail industry. Packaging Technology and Science: An International Journal, 15(1), pp.37-46. 
Saghir, M., 2004, April. The concept of packaging logistics. In Proceedings of the Fifteenth Annual POMS Conference, 
Cancun, April (pp. 1-31). 
Silva, N. and Pålsson, H., 2021. Industrial packaging and its impact on sustainability and circular economy: A 
systematic literature review. Journal of Cleaner Production, p.130165. 
Sung., K., Singh, J. and Bridgens, B., 2021. State-of-the-Art Upcycling Research and Practice. Springer International 
Publishing. 
Sung, K., 2015, April. A review on upcycling: Current body of literature, knowledge gaps and a way forward. World 
Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology. 
Tornese, F., Gnoni, M.G., Thorn, B.K., Carrano, A.L. and Pazour, J.A., 2021. Management and Logistics of Returnable 
Transport Items: A Review Analysis on the Pallet Supply Chain. Sustainability, 13(22), p.12747. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
711 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Twede, D., 1992. The process of logistical packaging innovation. Journal of business logistics, 13(1), p.69. 
Twede, D. and Parsons, B., 1997. Distribution packaging for logistical systems: A literature review. Pira. 
Verghese, K. and Lewis, H., 2007. Environmental innovation in industrial packaging: a supply chain 
approach. International Journal of Production Research, 45(18-19), pp.4381-4401. 
Vernuccio, M., Cozzolino, A. and Michelini, L., 2010. An exploratory study of marketing, logistics, and ethics in 
packaging innovation. European Journal of Innovation Management. 13(3), pp. 333-354. 
Weetman, C., 2016. A circular economy handbook for business and supply chains: Repair, remake, redesign, rethink. 
Kogan Page Publishers. 
Wegener, C., 2016. Upcycling. In Creativity—A New Vocabulary (pp. 181-188). Palgrave Macmillan, London. 
Yin, R.K., 2009. Case study research: Design and methods (Vol. 5). Sage. 
Ying, J., & Li-jun, Z. (2012). Study on green supply chain management based on circular economy. Physics 
Procedia, 25, 1682-1688. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
712 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
How Value Proposition Template 
matches sustainability: A bibliometric 
analysis 
 
Chiara Ottolenghi1,*, Gennaro Iasevoli2 
1LUMSA University; 2Research and Internationalization, LUMSA University 
*c.ottolenghi@lumsa.it  
Abstract  
The paper’s goal is to understand how Sustainability’s topic is represented in Value Proposition Templates. 
Through a bibliometric analysis on Value Proposition Template and Sustainability, it’s noted that the 
phenomenon grew in 2019 especially in the US and Indonesia and is developed in 3 out of 5 co-occurrence 
analysis clusters. 
Introduction and Objectives  
The goal of this paper is to understand how sustainability is included into Value Proposition Template 
(VPT) papers. In this paper it will be studied how the role of sustainability is declined in VPT and the 
benefits and future prospects of integration with one another.   
This paper will attempt to understand how sustainability changes everyday life, and how VPTs follow this 
wave and adapt to change by becoming sustainable. Sustainability is increasingly becoming a key part of 
many companies' strategies, so it’s becoming increasingly important both professionally and in terms of 
scientific research (Schoolman, E. D., et al., 2012). Taking a clear stance on the environmental and social 
impact of a company's business means extending this focus to all partners in the supply chain, including 
Value Proposition (Sianesi A., et al., 2018). In this paper it will be analyzed the rapid growth of 
sustainability in terms of developing Value Proposition (VP). Today, all companies are working on VP and 
therefore on templates, but how much is sustainability really explored in this context?  
Value Proposition 
Value Proposition represents the reason why the target audience buys products and services applied to 
their needs or designations. VP defines the way organizations work by focusing their activities on best 
serving their customers while doing so profitably (Barnes, C., et al., 2009). VP represents the strategic 
synthesis of a series of decisions and actions that must be jointly considered in a synergistic logic. 
Sustainability requires new sources and approaches to address VP (Pádua Pieroni, M., et al., 2018). 
Value Proposition Template 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
713 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Organizations use templates often in order to make VP easier to describe. Templates are conceptual 
schemes used to enhance and optimize the comprehension of a VP complex concept. Templates support 
companies in document’s creation, they can facilitate employee’s workload and assist in improving 
company’s employees’ attention (Goodyear, H. M., et al., 2013). While designing VPTs, business 
development and strategy are something that should be taken very seriously (Osterwalder, A., et al., 
2014). An important consideration is that VPT changes over the time (Ottolenghi, C., 2022) and it’s 
interesting to analyze whether they take into account sustainability. 
Adapting templates to current trends 
Sustainability has become increasingly important over the last years, thanks to society's awareness of its 
impact on the global environmental scenario. Social entrepreneurship considers social value creation as 
the primary objective of its business and looks at economic value creation as a by-product which allows 
the organization to achieve sustainability (Michelini, L., et al., 2012). Nowadays, many organizations 
choose the option of doing sustainable activities, as they see that companies that already have social and 
environmental certifications, attract more customers (Meseguer-Sánchez, V., et al., 2021). 
Research questions 
The objective of this paper is to understand how sustainability is introduced in VPT topic. For this reason, 
it’s important to analyze from a quantitative perspective how much VPTs include the matter of 
sustainability. In particular, the goal is to understand how much the topic is existent, if there are authors 
from countries where the topic is more prevalent, if there is a specific moment in which sustainability has 
been developed and which are the related topics.  
To understand this, research questions were outlined, such as: 
- 
“How is sustainability’s topic declined in that of VPT? How much is the topic existent?” 
- 
“Has the relation between the two developed during a specific period of time and which are the 
journal which treated them?” 
- 
“Which keywords are mainly used when this relation is treated and with how keywords have 
been explored over the years? How many keywords within the papers correlate with VPTs and 
sustainability”? 
Method  
In order to analyze the literature on the topic of VPT and sustainability was produced to date, a 
quantitative approach has been adopted based on bibliometric analysis. Bibliometric mapping is a spatial 
depiction of how subject areas, research strands, and contributions are related to each other (Cobo, M. 
J., et al., 2012). Scopus has been used to carry out the performance analysis, while VOSviewer has been 
used to do the bibliometric one. This platform was chosen to collect the papers because is described as 
"the most comprehensive access point in the scientific, medical, technical and social sciences, including 
all relevant literature" (Tarantino, E., 2006), and stating to this, it’s more than sufficient for the analysis. 
After the analysis of the papers found in literature and a comparison with experts of the topic, 5 keywords 
were selected. The keywords were: “value proposition template” or (“value proposition canvas” or “value 
proposition format”), and “sustainable” (or “sustainability”). To better explain the terms used in the first 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
714 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
search query, it was decided to use template because it’s widely used in many papers related to the topic 
(Barnes, C., et al., 2009; Fenwick, D., et al., 2009; Heikkinen, T., 2020). From an in-depth analysis of the 
synonyms that are used in the papers, it was chosen to add the term format as well (Fenwick, D., et al., 
2009; Walters, D., et al., 2020). In order to have an optimal research, it was also chosen to study papers 
that use the word canvas since utilized in the papers and on the topic (Osterwalder, A., et al. 2014; 
Belleflamme, P., et al. 2020; Meng, L., et al., 2020). The selection of documents took place in January 2022 
after a precise definition of the search criteria. An initial analysis on Scopus yielded these results:  
- 
Article Title ("value proposition template " OR "value proposition format" OR "value proposition 
canvas") = 4 papers 
- 
Abstract ("value proposition template " OR "value proposition format" OR "value proposition 
canvas") = 198 papers 
- 
Keyword ("value proposition template " OR "value proposition format" OR "value proposition 
canvas") = 33 papers 
 
Figure 1: The query selection process 
 
Source: Authors’ elaboration 
Once these articles were found, it was settled to put them together in order to analyze this phenomenon 
in a more comprehensive way. As showed in Figure 1, from the 235 starting papers, a cross-category 
analysis was done and duplicates were eliminated, bringing the starting search query to 210 papers. 
Subsequently, to the three previous keywords have been added the keywords “sustainable” or 
“sustainability”. It was selected to analyse the period 2001-2021 and to search only articles written in 
English. This second analysis has led to these results: 
- 
Article Title = 3 papers 
- 
Abstract = 81 papers 
- 
Keywords = 20 papers 
Starting from these 104 papers, 14 papers were eliminated and 90 were the total publications used for 
the analysis. It has been thought, however, that in order to better answer to the research questions and 
to have therefore a deepened analysis, both the queries were studied for better understanding the 
phenomenon. It was decided to use two Queries: Query A, composed by the result of the first analysis 
(210 papers) minus those of the second analysis (90 papers), thus leading to a result of 120 papers; the 
second, Query B, composed by the second analysis that contains sustainability keywords (90 papers). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
715 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Findings 
In order to understand how Sustainability’s topic is represented in VPTs it was conducted a quantitative 
literature analysis. In Table 1 it’s possible to note, that the Countries of the authors were 28 in Query A 
and 35 in Query B.  
Table 1: Quantitative analysis 
 
 
Countries 
Query A 
28 
Query B 
35 
Source: Authors’ elaboration 
Firstly, the dataset presented in Scopus was analyzed. It has been decided to show the differences 
between the two Queries in terms of author’s countries that were productive in the academics’ 
production. Analyzing the Figure 2, it’s clear that there aren’t differences in the graph for the first two 
countries that have the authors most productive (US and Indonesia). By contrast, Italy in Query B, is at 
the third place while in Query A is at the fifth, and Germany is at the fourth place in Query B while it’s at 
the third place in Query A.  
Figure 2: Countries of the authors - Query A and B 
 
Source: Authors’ elaboration  
This is confirmed by analysis of variance done through SPSS which identified, as in Table 2, the sum of 
squares, the degrees of freedom (df), the average squared, F and the significance rate (P <0.001).  
Table 2: Analysis of variance by countries 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
716 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Sum of squares 
df 
Average squared 
F 
Sig. 
Between groups 
3263,725 
9 
362,636 
65,151 
<0.001 
Within groups 
61,227 
11 
5,566 
 
 
Total 
3324,952 
20 
 
 
 
Source: Authors’ elaboration through SPSS 
Analysing Figure 3, academic production related to the two queries are different. Publications in Query A 
had always been presented moderately since the 2000s. From 2017 to nowadays, had had a strong 
growth. This is confirmed by the fact that more and more authors publish about VP importance in recent 
years (Metallo, C., et al. 2018). Query B is practically a non-existent topic at the publication level until 
2014, but since 2015 it performed a strong growth and it’s noticeble that year by year more publications 
in this area arose. The growth is correlated with the adoption by the United Nations of the 2030 Agenda 
(Tsalis, T. A., et al. 2020). From 2019 it has significant growth in publications this means that there is a 
two-year time gap between the two Queries.  
Figure 3: Documents by year Query A and B 
 
Source: Authors’ elaboration 
The statistical significance in the timeline 2001-2021, yielded a result of P <0.001 significance, 
extrapolated from analysis of variance done with SPSS which identified, as in Table 3, the sum of squares, 
the degrees of freedom (df), the average squared, F and the significance rate. 
Table 3: Analysis of variance by years 
 
Sum of squares 
df 
Average squared 
F 
Sig. 
Between groups 
1884,603 
8 
235,575 
66,868 
<0.001 
Within groups 
137,397 
39 
3,523 
 
 
Total 
2022,000 
47 
 
 
 
Source: Authors’ elaboration through SPSS 
In order to answer the research question of how the topic is treated and how keywords have been 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
717 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
explored over the years, an Overlay Visualization (used to show developments over time) was made by 
using the most used keywords of Query B from 2015 to 2021. As showed in Figure 4, the subject of 
collaboration was the oldest, dating back to 2015, while the VP, business model, sustainable development 
and sustainability were used increasingly few years later. Recently, there were the keywords innovation, 
sustainable business and economics. In 2021, however, the keywords circular economy and strategic 
approach were also used. 
Figure 4: Keyword co-occurrence analysis on a time perspective. 
 
Source: Authors’ elaboration through VOSviewer 
It can be affirmed that at first, the issue of collaboration emerges, then the topics of sustainable 
development, customer relationships, life cycle and sustainability appeared, and then more recently there 
were the themes of strategic approach, and circular economy.  
To understand how much Sustainability concept declined in VPTs designation and how they are related 
to Sustainability, a co-occurrence analysis based on all the keywords was conducted. The minimum 
number of occurrences of a keyword was settled 3, meaning that the co-occurrence of keywords below 3 
is excluded. In Query B, of the 775 keywords, 39 meet the threshold. 
To fully understand how many keywords within the papers correlate with VPTs and sustainability, among 
the keywords most cited and with total link strength there were VP, Business model canvas and 
Sustainable Development. And after them, innovation and sustainability. 
In Figure 5 each circle stands for a keyword from the dataset. If keywords tend to co-occur often, they are 
positioned close to each-other in the map; if they are positioned farther away, they are co-occurring less. 
The dimension expresses the number of times the keyword is cited. 
 
 
Figure 5: Keyword co-occurrence analysis – Query B 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
718 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Source: Authors’ elaboration through VOSviewer 
In Figure 5, there are 5 main clusters. Here’s the details of each cluster:  
- 
The green cluster concerns to VP, authors who deal with VP usually treat with business 
modelling and innovation, VP design, systems engineering and sustainable business.  
- 
The yellow one is Human’s cluster, usually authors write as well about sales, commerce and 
decision making.  
- 
Purple is related to Sustainable development, and who write about this, is interested on energy 
efficiency, life cycle, planning and economics. 
- 
Blue refers to Business Model, usually writers talk also about collaboration, entrepreneurship 
and customer relationship. 
- 
The red cluster is correlated with those authors who write about Business Development, and 
about sustainability, innovation, strategic approach, circular economy and conceptual 
framework.  
As it showed on the map, there is a cluster dedicated specifically to sustainable development. 
Sustainability’s matter is also presented in other clusters, in the red one and, to a marginal extent, in the 
green one. It isn’t present in the yellow and blue clusters. In the red cluster it’s possible to note that 
sustainability circle is very connected with Business development keyword and with the innovation one. 
Sustainability is important in VPT and also in those topics where authors write about businesses without 
a specific focus on VPT. 
Conclusions 
From a time point of view, sustainability topic (Query B) started growing in 2015, but had a significant 
expansion from 2019, two years later than Query A. The majority of the authors who deal with topic in 
Query B, live mainly in the US, Indonesia, Italy and Germany. In Query A there aren’t significant differences 
compared to those that write on VPTs and sustainability.  
Moreover, concerning keyword connections, the authors who deal with VPTs, also deal with sustainability. 
Indeed, sustainability issue is strictly correlated with VPTs. Indeed, it’s presented in 3 out of 5 clusters. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
719 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Going deeper, sustainable development cluster has its own specific dimension, and is connected with the 
entire business model, meaning that there is a need to have an integrated vision in the entire model of 
companies. For this reason, it’s important that sustainability is presented in VP. Therefore, sustainability 
correlates with business development, and it confirms authors’ hypothesis of the necessity for 
sustainability to being presented in VPTs, because sustainability is increasingly developing both in the 
scientific research and in businesses. Starting from what Lüdeke-Freund, F., et al. (2018) wrote, it’s 
important to understand different kinds of Sustainable Business Models (SBM) as they help formulating 
hypotheses about the potential solutions they offer to ecological and social problems. Studying the 
representation of Sustainability’s topic in VPTs is definitely a way to expand research in SBMs. 
Limitations.  
The limitations mainly arose because no analysis has been done on organizations and the selected articles 
were found only on Scopus database. Therefore, some relevant papers might be in other databases and/or 
might have been overlooked. 
Further Research. 
It might be interesting to explore how commercial companies include sustainability in their VPTs. This can 
be done also through interviews with managers. Businesses will have to take into consideration the 
increasing importance of sustainability issue and implement into business strategies and tactics. 
Managerial Implications. 
This quantitative analysis can provide to top management the insights to operate effectively in VPT. Firstly, 
businesses should use increasingly VPTs, and secondly, VPTs must include the sustainability criteria. 
Sustainability grows and managers should take into account synthesis tools for VPT. 
References 
Barnes, C., Blake, H., & Pinder, D. (2009) Creating and delivering your value proposition: Managing customer 
experience for profit. Kogan Page Publishers.  
Belleflamme, P., & Neysen, N. (2020) A Multisided Value Proposition Canvas for Digital Platforms. CORE. 
Da Costa Fernandes, S., Pigosso, D. C., McAloone, T. C., & Rozenfeld, H. (2020) Towards product-service system 
oriented to circular economy: A systematic review of value proposition design approaches. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 257, 120507. 
De Pádua Pieroni, M., Pigosso, D. C., & McAloone, T. C. (2018) Sustainable qualifying criteria for designing circular 
business models. Procedia Cirp, 69, 799-804.   
Cobo, M. J., López‐Herrera, A. G., Herrera‐Viedma, E., & Herrera, F. (2012) SciMAT: A new science mapping analysis 
software tool. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, 63(8), 1609-1630.  
Fenwick, D., Daim, T. U., & Gerdsri, N. (2009) Value Driven Technology Road Mapping (VTRM) process integrating 
decision making and marketing tools: Case of Internet security technologies. Technological Forecasting and 
Social Change, 76(8), 1055-1077.  
Goodyear, H. M., Bindal, T., & Wall, D. (2013) How useful are structured electronic Portfolio templates to encourage 
reflective practice?. Medical teacher, 35(1), 71-73. 
Heikkinen, T. (2020) Value proposition for high-speed applications with frequency converter.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
720 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L., & Breuer, H. (2018). The sustainable business model pattern 
taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable 
Production and Consumption, 15, 145-162. 
Meng, L., Somenahalli, S., & Berry, S. (2020) Policy implementation of multi-modal (shared) mobility: review of a 
supply-demand value proposition canvas. Transport Reviews, 40(5), 670-684. 
Meseguer-Sánchez, V., Gálvez-Sánchez, F. J., López-Martínez, G., & Molina-Moreno, V. (2021) Corporate Social 
Responsibility and Sustainability. A Bibliometric Analysis of Their Interrelations. Sustainability, 13(4), 1636.  
Metallo, C., Agrifoglio, R., Schiavone, F., & Mueller, J. (2018) Understanding business model in the Internet of Things 
industry. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 136, 298-306.  
Michelini, L., & Fiorentino, D. (2012) New business models for creating shared value. Social Responsibility Journal. 
Osterwalder, A., & Pigneur, Y. (2010) Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game changers, and 
challengers (Vol. 1). John Wiley & Sons. 
Osterwalder, A., Pigneur, Y., Bernarda, G., & Smith, A. (2014) Value proposition design: How to create products and 
services customers want (Vol. 2). John Wiley & Sons.  
Ottolenghi, C., (2022) Give me 5! Designing value proposition templates. Conference paper IMTC 2022 
Savitz, A., & Weber, W. (2006) The triple bottom line: How today’s best-run companies are achieving economic.  
Schoolman, E. D., Guest, J. S., Bush, K. F., & Bell, A. R. (2012). How interdisciplinary is sustainability research? 
Analyzing the structure of an emerging scientific field. Sustainability Science, 7(1), 67-80. 
Sianesi A., & Ciccullo F. (2018) «Sostenibilità», elemento strategico nelle imprese moderne. Il Sole24Ore 
www.ilsole24ore.com 
Tarantino, E. (2006) Troppo o troppo poco? Web of science, Scopus, Google scholar: tre database a confronto (un 
caso di studio). Bollettino AIB (1992-2011), 46(1-2), 23-34.   
Tsalis, T. A., Malamateniou, K. E., Koulouriotis, D., & Nikolaou, I. E. (2020) New challenges for corporate sustainability 
reporting: United Nations' 2030 Agenda for sustainable development and the sustainable development 
goals. Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 27(4), 1617-1629. 
Walters, D., & Helman, D. (2020) Building the “Connected” Business Model: Identifying Capability Requirements. In 
Strategic Capability Response Analysis (pp. 257-283). Springer, Cham. 
Yang, M., Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., & Rana, P. (2017) Value uncaptured perspective for sustainable business model 
innovation. Journal of Cleaner Production, 140, 1794-1804. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
721 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
PRO-STAKE: A New Business Model to 
Improve Total Sustainability 
 
Cherubini Sergio1,*, Padula Alberto2  
1University of Rome Tor Vergata; 2LUMSA University, Rome 
*cherubini@economia.uniroma2.it  
Abstract 
The paper describes a new Business Model based on stakeholder engagement and satisfaction in a win-
win perspective. In particular, each stakeholder is the bearer of interests that including not only rights but 
also duties, becoming co-producers of our organization through all their behaviours, not just those related 
to accountability, according to a PRO-STAKE (Producer-Stakeholder) logic aimed at fostering "total 
sustainability" in its various forms. 
Keywords  
Stakeholder, Engagement, Satisfaction, Benefit Corporation, Sustainability/Productivity 
 
Introduction and Objectives 
The need for sustainability is clear to everybody, but frequently there is some confusion about the 
meaning for sustainability. We do believe that sustainability is a multidimensional concept so that we 
need to identify the complex identity that we may call Total Sustainability. 
But if we want to be focus on Total Sustainability we need a new business model based on the cooperation 
among all the stakeholder that must become a real “Producer-Stakeholder Model” based on the “win-
win” concept. 
In this view every stakeholder must develop a positive engagement, built around an input/output matrix 
able to “promote stakeholder satisfaction” but also improve the productivity thanks to cost reduction and 
quality improvement.   
The aim of the paper is to assess the need for a positive Producer-Stakeholder and the importance of 
marketing in order to promote the development of stakeholders as creators of shared benefits. 
Research questions 
1. Has Sustainability mono or multi dimensions? 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
722 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2. If it is a multidimensional concept, can we speak about Total Sustainability (TS)?   
3. How much important are the stakeholders in Total Sustainability (TS)? 
4. If they are important, are they able to contribute to TS? 
5. In order to give a greater contribution, can we speak about PRODUCER-STAKEHOLDERS (PRO-STAKE) 
for the TS? 
6. How can marketing contribute to the development of the PRO-STAKE?          
Conceptual Framework and Method 
The conceptual reference principles are based on the traditional approach to marketing and further 
broadened by applying marketing to services (public and nonprofit ones too), reconsidering them in the 
digital and global context, and taking into consideration the resulting need for a more sustainability-
oriented approach with suitable productivity, especially in the post-pandemic and post-war crisis. 
It is therefore a conceptual paper based on the observation of the best experiences and on the analysis 
of the extensive literature on the subject, of which a synthesis is reported in bibliography. The aim is 
therefore to carry out a "holistic" research. In particular, there is a qualitative phase based on the analysis 
of digital papers from top research centers and global consulting companies.  
Index 
1. 
Marketing and Social Reputation 
2. 
Brand Purpose, Stakeholder Satisfaction and Total Sustainability 
3. 
Benefit Corporation 
4. 
Stakeholder Engagement 
5. 
Stakeholders’ Input-Output Matrix 
6. 
The Producer-Stakeholder Model (PRO-STAKE) 
7. 
Conclusions and Projects Promoting PRO-STAKE 
8. 
References and Selected Webliography 
 
1. Marketing and Social Reputation  
The function of marketing has not always had a good social reputation. It is often cited to say that 
marketing activities should not be taken too seriously and this even led the Italian Marketing Society to 
recently publish a manifesto of marketing to reiterate some principles and values often neglected and, in 
any case, not always observed by operators and public opinion. 
On the contrary, the Marketing mindset has always included a proper negotiation with customers, so 
much that customer satisfaction is consistently mentioned within its fundamentals as a key factor of good 
marketing, and the “win-win” approach is frequently cited to actually highlight the importance of mutual 
satisfaction for the prolonged life of companies in time. 
It is difficult to find such a clear and direct positioning in other corporate functions. Human Resources 
certainly shows many behaviours that cannot be said to be “fair” towards their own employees and 
prospective employees. The same can be said for Procurement and Financial departments, not to mention 
Production departments. Many other examples can be mentioned, however it is better not to go too far 
as there are also many virtuous behaviours of course. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
723 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
With reference to Human Resources and Procurement departments, it is no coincidence the so-called 
“internal marketing” practice has become widespread towards employees as well as “procurement 
marketing” towards suppliers.  
Nevertheless, it is possible to, or better to say, there is the need to improve as the race for 
competitiveness never ends!  
From this point of view, marketing can take the lead towards opening up satisfaction to all or, at least, to 
the most important stakeholders according to a spirit of collaboration strongly needed and consistent 
with the even more relevant brand purpose, about which the most famous brands discuss widely, as they 
are involved in setting a trend in line with the required recovery and resilience from the COVID pandemic.  
2. 
Brand Purpose, Stakeholder Satisfaction and Total Sustainability 
The concept of Brand Purpose is actually quite widespread as a new and essential point of reference for 
a management properly oriented to promote a “better world” and, therefore, a “total sustainability” in 
its different forms. The famous step towards the “reason for which we live” is inevitably connected to a 
higher attention to the interests of the community, following the triple bottom line approach or, if you 
wish, the ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) and therefore, to the collective of stakeholders 
representing the evolution from “I” to “We” on which future needs has to be built. As a consequence, it 
is clear that sustainability must be multidimensional and related to the multiple aspects referred to above, 
including the economic one, in order to be able to speak of a true total sustainability (TS) related to brand 
purpose-doing and not only to brand-purpose telling. 
The attention to Stakeholder Satisfaction is not something new. The innovation is actually in the fact that 
the attention seems to have become one of the principles and values to observe, so that it is not just a 
declaration of intents, even though worthy, but a practice implemented mainly by the brands that wish 
to show the way, as true leaders do, towards a complicated future but nonetheless also sustainable when 
negotiating both with customers and community stakeholders. 
What highlighted above needs to be interpreted not just in terms of “soft” attitude, but also in terms of 
“good management” and, therefore, advantageous for the trust it generates in consumers and 
stakeholders. For those who can think ahead, TRUST PAYS even though it may not seem so at a first glance. 
3. 
Benefit Corporations 
It is therefore not by accident that lately a growing number of Benefit Corporations is being established 
in the world and in Italy. The goal of this type of companies is not just profit and dividends paid to 
shareholders, but also to improve and increase the positive impact of their own activities on the company, 
their own employees, suppliers, environment and, more in general, on their own stakeholders, in line with 
what said above. 
In particular, according to Hiller (2013), B-Corps are being established starting from the need of companies 
to voluntarily adopt ethical decision-making and socially responsible standards, also in relation to the low 
levels of trust caused by global financial crises. As a result, marketing needs to make an effort in the search 
and definition of consistent and innovative aspects in order to allow companies to develop/create new 
business models that, at the same time, may guarantee more productivity and (some) tangible benefits 
(positive effects or reduced negative effects) to their stakeholders. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
724 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
More in details, in order to obtain and avoid losing the certification, B-Corps must meet specific standards 
in terms of environmental and social impact, measured through the BIA, the B Impact Assessment 
(Honeyman & Jana, 2019), in addition to complying with the relevant regulations of the countries where 
there is a specific legislation governing them (B-Corps, according to law). 
It can therefore be said that B-Corporations operate in the view of “regeneration”, implementing and 
overcoming, as a result, the concept of “sustainability” and “circularity” thanks to their ability to generate 
more economic, social and environmental value than the one used to produce. 
The path of a company towards the transformation and transition into a B-Corp is quite complicated and 
full of obstacles and may take a lot of time. When walking the path, many critical issues emerge, which 
are connected to the past of the companies, to current management, to communication procedures etc. 
With regard to this, the important thing on which to play is the rich legacy of one’s own company and the 
contribute it may give in the years to the local community and area and, therefore, to its own field of 
action. 
4. 
Stakeholder Engagement 
The above said seems to prove that public and private, profit and non-profit organizations are sharing the 
idea of developing better relationships with the different stakeholders, pushed not just by the pressure 
caused by the pandemic, but also, and maybe above all, pushed by the confidence that such a new 
approach may be beneficial to the longevity of their own organizations, thus generating a positive 
reputation, meant as a true strength and characterized by their only reason to exist. 
Such a sense of responsibility, associated to the sincerest spirit of collaboration, stimulates more balanced 
negotiation with the outer world that may recall the abovementioned “win-win” approach to be 
developed with consumers as well as with stakeholders. In this sense, we can therefore speak of total 
sustainability only if there is the contribution of all the stakeholders involved. 
In order to achieve a balanced negotiation, however, the several actors need to positively collaborate and 
make each one their own part. We can therefore speak of a true partnership or, using a more fashionable 
term, of engagement, a positive and functional one, to share a part of the journey towards a collective 
benefit. 
However, it must be acknowledged that still today many stakeholders are not aware of the collaborative 
dimension leading to a mutual benefit. They are still used to ask for more than to give and this makes it 
difficult to have a positive engagement. 
With reference to this, it is important to note that, in this paper, stakeholder engagement is understood 
in a broader meaning, be it formal and informal, and therefore it includes any stakeholder behaviour and 
not just those interpreted as accountability. 
This also makes it highlight once again how participation can easily create a non-zero-sum situation, when 
it is “opportunistic”. 
As the following figure 1 shows, we can always, and in any case, talk about stakeholder engagement. The 
problem is that the same engagement sometimes is active and other times passive, just like the 
contribution, which sometimes is correct and other times not correct. It is clear that to gain benefit for all 
it is essential that it has to be active/correct (that is positive), while still today, in some cases, it is 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
725 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
passive/not correct (that is latent), when not even active/not correct (that is negative). Smart companies 
therefore need to apply a “marketing towards stakeholders” in order to make them become 
active/correct, so they can give a positive contribution. 
Fig. 1 - SH Engagement Compared to their Contribution 
 
It should also be noted that for a certain company not all the stakeholders are important in the same way, 
therefore it is useful to be aware how to “weigh” them by rating them, and how to value them by ranking 
them, in order to work on the most strategic ones. 
From this perspective it is even possible to estimate a Positive Engagement Index (PEI) for each 
stakeholder through the following mathematical formula: 
PEI = (VS1xPS1%) + (VS2xPS2%) + (VS3xPS3%) + ….. (VSnxPSn%) 
100 
where V stands for engagement rate (for example from 1 to 10), S1, S2, S3, Sn indicate the different 
stakeholders and P represents the percentage weight of a stakeholder. 
5. 
Stakeholders’ Input-Output Matrix 
The larger and clearer picture of a role that, nowadays, stakeholders are called to play leads, as a 
consequence, to look at the matrix characterising them. 
As shown in the following figure 2, each stakeholder can actually develop, as an input, an engagement 
that can lead, as an output, to a satisfaction output. 
Each stakeholder is involved, more or less strongly, with all the stakeholders and contributes to “build” 
others’ satisfaction. In other words, a stakeholder is a carrier of interests, but these refer to its own rights 
(in particular overall satisfaction) as well as to its duties (in particular the positive collaboration with 
others).  
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
726 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Fig. 2 – Stakeholders’ Input-Output Matrix 
 
6. 
The Producer-Stakeholder Model (PRO-STAKE) 
In the light of what said above, it is clear that stakeholders, taking into account the current competitive 
status, can and must become co-producers of our organization, notwithstanding the need for a suitable 
preparation that can be developed by the same stakeholder or promoted by those involved.  
With regard to this, we can speak of a real “stakeholder marketing” by an organization to stimulate 
stakeholders to become aware of the mutual benefits that may result. As it often happens with 
consumers, stakeholders can be categorized as gold, silver and bronze, using a classic positioning matrix 
like the one displayed below (Fig. 3). 
The matrix makes it easy to understand that stakeholders on the right of the balance diagonal line need 
us to take action to foster satisfaction in order to be able to ask them for a level of engagement 
commensurate with their importance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
727 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Fig. 3 - Stakeholder Positioning Map 
 
The active engagement of the several stakeholders may lead to look at them increasingly more as new 
“productivity agents”, referring to a virtuous process that is outlined below (Fig. 4).  
Fig. 4 - PRO-STAKE Model (Producer-Stakeholders) 
 
From the graphic the new concept of Producer-Stakeholder clearly emerges, from which a new acronym 
can be generated, that is PRO-STAKE.  
The proposed Business Model is therefore based on the active involvement of all stakeholders to achieve 
the goal of Total Sustainability. 
7. Conclusions and Projects Promoting PRO-STAKE 
The creation of a PRO-STAKE model is clearly very challenging because it involves many profit and non-
profit, private and public operators and each of them has built, in the past, behavioural habits with a quite 
individualistic approach, but also short-sighted, which means lacking a true vision. More than fifty years 
 
  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
728 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
ago Ted Levitt, a professor from Harvard Business School, wrote an article titled Marketing myopia, in 
which he pointed out how managers often cannot see the “bigger” picture and, due to their opportunism 
and individualism, neglect future-oriented activities, which instead are more convenient even for them.  
The recent pandemic brought back the attention of people towards two factors that, according to 
corporate jargon, can be defined Critical Success Factors: sense of responsibility and spirit of collaboration 
to survive in a community experiencing difficulties. 
Those same factors can be recalled to support “good management”, which is able to sail in the stormy 
waters that is today’s international competition.    
In such a prospective “good marketing” is needed that can involve stakeholders, at least the most essential 
ones, with a “win-win” mindset, which should always be one of the main marketing features. In other 
words, a serious accountability is no longer enough, even when matched with qualified standards, as there 
is a need for a bigger picture that can only be achieved thanks to the professional contribution of 
marketing. 
In order to start developing such a winning mindset many projects can be launched each time that are 
functional to each field of activity. 
The first feature of those projects can be to develop a mindset functional to the single operations. This 
makes it useful the graphic shown below (Fig. 5). 
Figure 5 draws inspiration from the previous Figure 1, but in this case, it shows how to act according to 
the four identified quadrants. It is therefore a matter of: 
a. assisting and strengthening stakeholders who are already active and correct; 
b. stimulating passive stakeholders who however have the opportunity to give a correct contribution; 
c. informing passive stakeholders who give a non-correct contribution to make them understand they 
can do more and better; 
d. containing active stakeholders who however give a non-correct contribution, trying to make them 
develop towards a correct activism. 
Fig. 5 - Management of Stakeholder Engagement 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
729 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Within the framework of such a strategic path, more tactic initiatives must be taken among which the 
following are highlighted: 
a. professional development and training to “treat” short-sightedness, making it clear why it is beneficial 
to move towards a collaborative logic; 
b. activities to strengthen the several professional associations (starting from the several branches of 
Confindustria, the Confederation of Italian Industries). 
c. communication activities through special publications, conferences, websites and industry-oriented 
social media; 
d. reporting and sharing cases of “good practice” and giving out awards and certificates of merit; 
e. activities to connect Sustainability to Good Management; 
f. activities of…   
In conclusion, it is not a matter of “soft attitude”, but of forward-thinking management and marketing 
establishing medium/long-term goals according to a MAI Logic (Marketing As Innovative) and not a MAU 
Logic (Marketing As Usual) or, if you prefer, “If you don’t trust innovation, try usuality” to see what results 
are achieved. 
With regard to this, the end-of-year 2020 speech held by the President of the Italian Republic, Sergio 
Mattarella, within which there were references to the pandemic and resilience is encouraging: “Now we 
must plan for the future. We do not live in a historical parenthesis. This is a time for builders. The next 
few months will be decisive towards overcoming the emergency and laying the foundations for a new 
season. No distractions are allowed. No time must be wasted. Energies and opportunities must not be 
wasted in pursuit of illusory partisan advantages”. 
These words are still relevant today as ever. 
References  
AA.VV. (2018), Sviluppo di uno Stakehlder efficace. Strumenti e opportunità per le imprese, Impronta Etica. 
ANDRIOF J. & WADDOCK S. (2017), “Unfolding Stakeholder Engagement”, Unfolding Stakeholder Thinking, 
Routledge. 
BURCKHART T., KRUMEICH J., WERTH D., LOOS P. (2011), “Analyzing the Business Model Concept – A Comprehensive 
Classification of Literature”, ICIS 2011 Proceedings, 12. 
BUCKLIN L.P. (1978-2011), Productivity in Marketing, American Marketing Association. 
CHERUBINI S. (2002), Un modello strategico per il management della sostenibilità sociale, paper in 25° Convegno 
AIDEA, Università del Piemonte Orientale 
CHERUBINI S. (2007), “Co-Marketing: a New Challenge for Football Managers”, in Desbordes M., Marketing and 
Football, ed. Elsevier, 2007. 
CHERUBINI S. (2021), Marketing19.0. Per la ripresa e la Resilienza, goWare, Firenze. 
CHERUBINI S., IASEVOLI G. (2005), “Marketing of the Event System to Create Value”, International Marketing Trends 
Conference, Paris. 
CHERUBINI S., MAGRINI R. (2003), Il Management della sostenibilità sociale, Franco Angeli, Milano 
CHERUBINI S., PADULA A. (2012), Management dei servizi pubblici. Per lo sviluppo competitivo e la crescita del 
sistema paese, Franco Angeli, Milano. 
CHERUBINI S., PADULA A. (2022), “Marketing and Productivity: a Post-Pandemic, Challenge”, International 
Marketing Trends Conference, Rome 
CHERUBINI S., PATTUGLIA S. (2013), MarketingCube. Elettronico, emozionale, esperienziale, EGEA, Milano. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
730 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
CHERUBINI S., PATTUGLIA (2013), “Entertainment and Communication: An Interdependent Approach for Generating 
Value Through Commu-tainment”, International Marketing Trends Conference, Paris. 
CHERUBINI S., PATTUGLIA S. (a cura di, 2009), Co-opetititon. Cooperazione e competizione nella comunicazione e nei 
media, Franco Angeli, Milano. 
CHERUBINI S., SANTINI A. (2009), “The Growing Complexity of Sports Marketing Needs a New Organization”, 
International Marketing Trends Conference, Paris. 
CIPOLLETTA I. (2021), La nuova normalità. Istruzioni per un futuro migliore, Editori Laterza, Bari. 
CUADRADO M. (2020), Oltre Covid. La società aperta e il futuro della rete, goWare, Firenze. 
DECASTRI M., FERRO E., QUIZIELVU M. (a cura di, 2021), Verso un nuovo Rinascimento. L’impresa di valore, Edizione 
Guerini Next. 
DI MARIA E., SIMONI M., PEDELIENTO G., GALVAGNO M. (2021). The long Covid effect in marketing and consumer 
research, in Italian Journal of Marketing, October 
DYER F., GODFREY P., JENSEN R., BRYCE D., PASTORE A. (2018), Strategic Management. Principi e applicazioni, Isedi, 
Milano. 
ENRIGHT S., TAYLOR A. & Al. (2016), The future of Stakeholder Engagement. Trasformative Engagement for Inclusive 
Business, Research Report, BSR. 
GALLOWAY S. (2020, Post Corona. From Crisis to Opportunity. Winners & Losers in a World Turned Upside Down, 
Penguin Random House, Londra 
GOYAL S., Kapoor A., ESPOSITO M., SERGI B.S. (2017), “Understanding Business Model - Literature Review of Concept 
and Trends”, International Journal of Competitiveness, Vol. 1, No. 2. 
HILLER J.S. (2013), “The Benefit Corporation and Corporate Social Responsibility”, Journal of Business Ethics, 118 (2). 
HONEYMANN R., JANA T. (2019), The B Corp Handbook. How You Can Use Business as a Force for Good, Berrett-
Koehler Publishers.  
IASEVOLI G. (2004), Le alleanze di marketing. Sviluppare, gestire e valutare il co-marketing e il co-branding, Franco 
Angeli, Milano. 
IKUJIRO N., TAKEUCHI H. (2021), “Strategy as a Way of Life: Businesses Must Root Strategy in Moral Purpose to 
Thrive in a Complex, Rapidly Changing World”, MIT Sloan Management Review 63, no. 1. 
ITAMI H. WITH THOMAS W. ROEHL (1991), Mobilizing Invisible Assets, Harvard University Press. 
JARACH D., REINA D. (2020), Il Marketing ai tempi del Coronavirus. Istruzioni per l’uso, EGEA, Milano. 
JUNGWOO L., SPRING H. (a cura di, 2021), The Future of Service Post-Covid-19 Pandemic. Transformation of Services 
Marketing, Springer Edition. 
LEONIDOU E., CHRISTOFI M., VRONTIS D., THRASSOU A. (2020), “An Integrative Framework of Stakeholder 
Engagement for Innovation Management and Entrepreneurship Development”, Journal of 
Business Research, 119. 
LEVITT T. (1960), ”Marketing Myopia”, Harvard Business Review, 38. 
LOUREIRO S. M. C., ROMERO J., BILRO R. G. (2020), “Stakeholder Engagement in Co-Creation Processes for 
Innovation: a Systematic Literature Review and Case Study”, Journal of Business Research, 119. 
MARKOVIC S.,  GYRD-JONES R.,  WALLPACH VON S., LINDGREEN A. (2022), Research Handbook on Brand Co-
Creation.Theory, Practice and Ethical Implications, Edward Elgar Publishing. 
MENGHINI F. (2021), È già domani. Economia, lavoro, salute, prima e dopo la pandemia, goWare, Firenze. 
MORICI G. (2020), Fare marketing rimanendo brave persone. Etica e poetica del mestiere più discusso del mondo, 
Giangiacomo Feltrinelli Editore, Milano. 
NONAKA I., TAKEUCI H. (2021), L’Impresa saggia. Come le imprese creano l’innovazione continua, Milano, Guerini 
Next. 
PADULA A. (2013), “An Innovative Public Value Chain to Improve Public Services”, International Journal in Advances 
in Management and Economic, Sept-Oct 2013, Vol. 2, Issue 5. 
PADULA A. (2013), “An Innovative Approach to HR Management in the Service Sector to Improve Investments in 
Human Capital”, in Edvarsson B., Colurcio M., Witell L. (a cura di), Workshop on Service Innovation 
Research, Aracne, Roma. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
731 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
PADULA A. (2008), “La centralità delle persone per la qualità dei servizi pubblici”, in Rivista italiana di comunicazione 
pubblica, Franco Angeli, Roma, n. 35/2008. 
PADULA A. (2007), Marketing Interno. Prospettive e applicazioni innovative, Hoepli, Milano. 
PADULA A. (2007), “Verso un nuovo Marketing Interno”, in Cherubini S. (a cura di), Scritti in onore di Giorgio 
Eminente, Franco Angeli, Milano. 
PAPAGIANNAKIS G., VOUDOURIS I., LIOUKAS S., KASSINIS G. (2019), ”Environmental Management Systems and 
Environmental Product Innovation: The Role of Stakeholder Engagement”, Business Strategy and 
the Environment, Vol. 28, Issues 6 . 
PASTORE A., MASSACESI A. (2021), Sustainable Business Management, Mc Graw Hill, Milano. 
PATTUGLIA S. (2013), Media management. Convergenza e sviluppo competitivo delle imprese mediatiche, Franco 
Angeli, Milano. 
PORTER M., KRAMER M. (2011), “Creating Shared Value: Redefining Capitalism and the Role of the Corporation in 
Society”, Harvard Business Review, 89. 
ZAHARA S.A., WRIGHT M. (2016), “Understanding the Social Role of Enterpreneurship, Journal of Management 
Studies, 53 (4) 
 
Selected Webliography 
 
https://www.accenture.com/_acnmedia/PDF-125/Accenture-A-New-Era-in-Customer-Engagement.pdf#zoom=40.  
https://www.adlittle.com/sites/default/files/prism/risk-_strengthening_business_resilience.pdf.  
https://advisory.kpmg.us/articles/2020/building-customer-trust.html.  
https://www.bain.com/insights/covid-19-protect-recover-and-retool/.  
https://www.bsr.org/en/our-insights/report-view/the-future-of-stakeholder-engagement  
https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/it/Documents/about-
deloitte/EmergingStrongerENG_Deloitte.pdf 
https://forbes.it/2021/10/08/b20-marcegaglia-presenta-draghi-proposte-ripartire.  
https://www.gartner.com/smarterwithgartner/reset-your-business-strategy-in-covid-19-recovery/ 
https://www.governo.it/sites/governo.it/files/PNRR_0.pdf. 
https://hbr.org/2020/09/adapt-your-business-to-the-new-reality  
https://hbr.org/2020/11/predicting-consumer-demand-in-an-unpredictable-world 
https://info.boardofinnovation.com/hubfs/Low%20Touch%20Economy%20report%20gold%20rush.pdf.  
https://www.interbrand.com/thinking/beyond-the-storm-a-new-decade-of-possibility. 
https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/organization/our-insights/speed-and-resilience-five-priorities-for-
the-next-five-months. 
https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/marketing-and-sales/our-insights/the-growth-triple-play-
creativity-analytics-and-purpose?.  
https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/marketing-and-sales/our-insights/pricing-in-a-pandemic-
navigating-the-covid-19-crisis?.   
https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/mckinsey/business%20functions/strategy%20and%20corporate%20finance/
our%20insights/how%20executives%20can%20help%20sustain%20value%20creation%20for%2
0the%20long%20term/corporate-long-term-behaviors-how-ceos-and-boards-drive-sustained-
value%20creation.pdf.  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
732 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Transition policy mixes and 
incumbents’ business model 
adaptation: A case study of UK Zero-
Carbon Homes 
 
Mina Rezaeian1  
1Manchester Institute of Innovation Research, University of Manchester, 
United Kingdom 
*mina.rezaeian@manchester.ac.uk  
Abstract 
The literature on sustainability transitions has highlighted the important role of government interventions 
through technological changes. However, the relationship between transition policies/policy mixes and 
firms’ business models is under-researched. This paper illustrates the dynamics between transition policy 
mixes and incumbents’ business models in the context of the UK's Zero-Carbon Homes policy mix. 
Keywords  
Sustainability transitions, Business model adaptation, Transition policies, Policy mixes. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
733 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
What Green Business Model actually 
is? 
Understanding of Green Business Models Among SMEs, 
Startups, Consulting and Public Businesses in Denmark 
Rita Adomaityte1,*, Sukanthan Sureshkumar1, Peter Lindgren1, 
Henriette Agerskov Eriksen1 
1Aarhus University 
*ritaad@btech.au.dk 
Extended abstract 
INTRODUCTION 
Over the last decade, green business become a hot topic worldwide. It is obvious not only because of an 
increasing number of academic research publications but also of the amount and the scope of the 
European Union initiatives, different governmental regulations and support plans for moving 
environmental challenges to business opportunities. Even though many big multinational enterprises 
started to implement various sustainable initiatives, it still can be challenging for small and medium-sized 
enterprises (SMEs) to implement significant changes and make their business greener. Moreover, there 
is a tendency for the failure in green business innovation, because of the various reasons such as the 
novelty of the green business field, complexity, lack of the tangible benefits, scarce investment, and 
questionable motivation of businesses and industries to become greener (Hennemann et al., 2021). 
In the existing body of the literature, green business models are often researched next to sustainability 
(Sommer, 2012, Pigosso et al., 2018, Pieroni et al., 2019, Løkke et al., 2020) and circular economy 
(Henriksen et al., 2012, Pigosso et al., 2018, Kopnina, 2019) topics. A couple of literature sources identified 
green business models as the process, where business improves on the environmental scale and still 
performs well based on economical values (Sommer, 2012, Henriksen et al., 2012, Abuzeinab and Arif, 
2014). Nonetheless, the main difference between these authors´ definitions was that Sommer (2012) 
related green business models with the entire value chain, yet Henriksen et al. (2012), and Abuzeinab and 
Arif (2014) considered separate parts of the business model. Furthermore, some of the authors looked 
wider and described the green business model as a natural part of the business model ecosystem of the 
business (Nair and Paulose, 2014). 
This study is performed as part of the Greenbizz project, where researchers in collaboration with public 
organizations and private consultancies help Danish, Swedish and Norwegian SMEs and startups to 
develop new, green business models (Greenbizz, 2022). In order to assure an effective business model 
development process, it was crucial to first identify a common understanding of the term green business 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
734 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
models between SMEs in the separate countries involved in the Greenbizz project. This extended abstract 
introduces the research prosecuted in Denmark. 
During the background investigation of the grey Danish literature, appeared, that the following topics are 
often discussed parallel with the green business models: (1) Environment, (2) Energy type, (3) CO2,(4) 
Resource and material use, (5) Technology construction (product-, production-, process technology), (6) 
LCA, (7) Waste and waste construction, (8) Circular economy, (9) Business model construction, (10) Helix 
construction, (11) UN´s Sustainable development goals, (12) Cradle-to-cradle. Naturally, this raised a 
concern about how SMEs, startups, also consultancies and public businesses working with them perceive 
a green business model and if there is a common understanding between these businesses. 
Therefore, the purpose of this research is to investigate the term green business model, based on the 
multiple case study of Danish startups, SMEs, public organizations and consultancy firms, in order to 
define a shared understanding of the subject, if there is any. Additionally, it is expected that the analysis 
of data will result in the proposition of a clear and detailed definition of green business models. 
Consequently, there is stated following research question: 
RQ: What green business model characteristics are ascertained by startups, SMEs, public businesses and 
consultancy businesses in Denmark? 
METHODS 
To investigate the perception of a green business model and the origin of the definitions that are used 
around in private and public organizations, a qualitative method has been chosen. The qualitative method 
allows a comprehensive investigation of the research question where the researcher is involved in the 
data collection process (Flick, 2018). Besides that, this research is using the abductive approach, where 
interaction between theory and empirical observations are close and it seeks to develop new theories 
(Dubois and Gadde, 2002). Furthermore, this research employs triangulation methods, which use primary 
and secondary data from different data sources and apply various data collection methods, which increase 
the external validity and reliability of this research (O´Connor and Gibson, 2017). 
In order to explore the understanding of green business models in Danish SMEs, consultancy firms and 
public organizations, primary and secondary data was collected. The process of the data collection 
consists of two steps: (1) selection of target groups, and (2) semi-structured interviews. Theoretical 
sampling is used in order to collect data on a green business model subject purely for theoretical and not 
statistical matter (Glaser and Strauss, 1967). Consequently, there are selected four target groups: (1) 
Danish SMEs, (2) Danish startups, (3) Danish consulting businesses, and (4) Danish public businesses or 
knowledge businesses.  
Semi-structured interviews with 21 respondents were conducted utilizing an interview guide developed 
using Adams (2015) suggested principles for the semi-structured interview guides. All interviews were 
recorded and afterwards transcribed. Consequently, these notes are condensed into a predefined 
template for each interview, where keywords essential for answering research questions are highlighted. 
PRELIMINARY RESULTS 
Interviews were conducted with 21 businesses, from which seven were consultancies, six SMEs, three 
startups, three public businesses, one business that can be identified as both - consultancy and startup, 
and one consultancy/SME business. Collected data provided insights into the respondents´ definition of a 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
735 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
green business model and its characteristics. Furthermore, the results of semi-structured interviews 
provide insights into how involved businesses are with the green business models and where their 
knowledge derives from. Moreover, the results provided comprehensive insights into how businesses 
relate to green business models and the topics defined in the literature review. 
Nevertheless, results show that there is no unified understanding of what a green business model is. 
Furthermore, the knowledge of the respondents is built up based on different sources and various criteria. 
CONCLUSION  
This study conveys research regarding green business model understanding in the SMEs and startups in 
Denmark by answering four research questions stated in the introduction. This knowledge is vital for 
recognition of what the common understanding of the green business model is for the Danish startups, 
SMEs, consultancy and public businesses. Furthermore, by identifying how and where the research´s 
target groups learn what the green business model is, it is expected to trace the rudiments of green 
business model theory among practitioners in Denmark. Consequently, the results of this study are 
contributing to academic research by filling out the gap in the green business model research and 
providing background for current and future green business model development projects in Denmark. It 
also stresses the necessity of a common comprehensive definition of the green business models. 
This study delivers a valuable contribution to track 4.1. in the NBM 2022 conference by investigating 
shared understanding of the green business models by startups, SMEs and related consultancies and 
public business in Denmark. It builds the fundament for further research and helps to explore the potential 
for green development. 
Keywords 
Green business models, small and medium-sized enterprises, startups, consultancies, public business 
References 
Abuzeinab, A., Arif, M. (2014). Stakeholder Engagement: A Green Business Model Indicator. Procedia Economics and 
Finance, 5005-512. 
Adams, W.C. (2015). Conducting Semi-Structured Interviews. In H. P. Joseph S. Wholey, Handbook of Practical 
Program Evaluation (pp. 492-505). ProQuest Ebook Central. 
Dubois, A., Gadde, L.E., (2002). Systematic Combining: An Abductive Approach To Case Research. Journal of Business 
Research, 553-560. 
European Commission. (2022, February). Retrieved from An official website of the European Union: 
https://ec.europa.eu/growth/smes_da 
Flick, U. (2018). Designing Qualitative Research. Second Edition. Berlin: SAGE Publications Ltd. 
Glaser, B.G. and Strauss, A.L. (1967). The Discovery of Grounded Theory: Strategies for Quaitative Research. New 
Brunswick (USA) and London (UK): Aldine Transaction. 
Greenbizz. (2022, February). Retrieved from https://www.greenbizz.eu/dk/projekt/ 
Henriksen, K., Bjerre, M., Almasi, M.A., Damgaard-Grann, E. (2012). Green Business Model Innovation. Oslo: Nordic 
Innovation Publication. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
736 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
J. N. Hennemann, B. Draser and K. R. Stofkova. (2021). The Green Business and Sustainable Development School—
A Case Study for an Innovative Educational Concept to Prevent Big Ideas from Failure. Sustainability (Basel, 
Switzerland) 2021 Vol. 13 Issue 4 Pages 1943, 15. 
Kopnina, H. (2019). Green-Washing or Best Case Practices? Using circular economy and Cradle to Cradle case studies 
in business education. Journal of Cleaner Production, Vol. 219, 613-621. 
Lindgren, P., Knoth, N.S.H., Sureshkumar, S., Friedrich, M.F., Adomaityte, R. (2021). "Green Multi Business Models" 
How to Measure Green Business Models and Green Business Model Innovation? Wireless Personal 
Communications, Vol.121 (2), 1303-1323. 
Løkke, S., Schmidt, J.H., Lyhne, I., Kørnøv, L., Revsbeck, R. (2020). How Green Are Suported "Green" Business Models? 
Time For The Life Cycle Approach To Enter Public Support Programmes. The International Journal Of Life 
Cycle Assessment, 2086-2092. 
Nair, S., Paulose, H. (2014). Emergence of Green Business Models: The Case of Algae Biofuel for Aviation. Energy 
Policy, 175-184. 
O´Connor, H. and Gibson, N. (2017). A Step-by-Step Guide to Qualitative Data Analysis. A Journal of Aboriginal and 
Indigenous Community Health, 65-90. 
Pieroni, M.P.P., McAloone, T.C., Pigosso, D.C.A. (2019). Business Model Innovation for Circular Economy and 
Sustainability: A Review of Approaches. Journal of Cleaner Production, 198-216. 
Pigosso, D.C.A, Schniegelow, A., Andersen, M.M. (2018). Measuring the Readiness of SMEs for Eco-Innovation and 
Industrial Symbiosis: Development of a Screening Tool. Sustainability, 1-27. 
Sommer, A. (2012). Managing Green Business Model Transformations. Luneburg, Germany: Centre for Sustainability 
Management (CSM). 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
737 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Barriers to the sustainable business 
model innovation-The case of 
manufacturing SMEs in Sweden 
 
Fawzi Halila, Ghazal Zalkat*, Henrik Barth 
Halmstad University  
*ghazal.zalkat@hh.se 
Extended abstract  
Responding to the sustainable development goals (SDGs), companies of various ages and sizes, in various 
industries and geographic locations, are increasingly changing their business logic in an effort to become 
providers of goods and services that reflect a commitment to economic, environmental, and social 
sustainability (Lynch et al. 2020; Geels 2019; Nosratabadi et al. 2019; Zollo et al., 2013). Small and mid-
size enterprises (SMEs) are essential to the EU’s transition to a sustainable economy because they could 
provide potential solutions to climate change, resource efficiency, and social cohesion. SMEs are the 
backbone of the European economy as they represent 99% of all companies in the EU, employ about 100 
million, and add value in all sectors (European Commission, 2020).  
However, sustainability transitions face numerous challenges (Köhler et al. 2019; Nosratabadi et al. 2019; 
Hernández-Chea et al. 2021) and little is known about the effectiveness of the sustainable business model 
(SBM) (Alonso-Martinez et al. 2021). In addition, limited evidence exists on how firms engage in 
developing and implementing SBM (Köhler et al. 2018), and the theory of thek firm lacks the macro-
perspective analysis of sustainability transitions (Bidmon and Knab 2019; Köhler et al. 2019). Moreover, 
research has not primarily focused on the challenges that SMEs face during the transition towards 
sustainability which presents new challenges for SMEs to innovate and change their existing business 
practices, especially in the early phase. Nosratabadi et al. (2019) recommended future research that 
analyzes the processes of transition from a traditional business model (BM) to a SBM in different 
industries. Thus, there is a need for a comprehensive insight that explains how companies deal with 
sustainability in their BM (Bocken and Gerardts, 2020; Bocken et al. 2014) and which challenges and 
barriers they face. This study aims to identify different challenges that SMEs in the manufacturing sector 
in Sweden face and to compare these challenges from our empirical data and the challenges that are 
identified in the literature (Guldmann and Huulgaard 2020). We will develop a conceptual framework for 
challenges and barriers based on the literature studies and our empirical data.  
Recently, BM for sustainability is receiving more attention from industry and academics (Pieroni et al., 
2019). Various researchers have conducted investigations of SBMs and sustainable business model 
innovation (BMI) (Bocken et al., 2014; Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013; Schaltegger et al., 2016). Bocken et 
al., (2014) define the sustainable BMI that providing substantial positive and/or significantly reduces 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
738 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
negative environmental and societal effects achieved by changes in how the organization and its value 
network create, deliver, and capture value or change its value propositions. While Geissdoerfer et al., 
(2016) refine this definition by conceptualizing it as a process with a specific focus on the integration of 
sustainable value among a wide range of stakeholders. These studies reflect the trend in the research that 
looks beyond an organization’s profit-centered focus to the environmental and social aspects of its BM 
(Alonso-Martinez et al. 2021). The SBM can create a competitive advantage by offering the superior 
customer value and by contributing to the sustainability of the organization and society (Nosratabadi et 
al. 2019; Lüdeke-Freund, 2010). Despite this increased interest and focus, research and practice still lack 
a general and shared understanding of the innovation process, the building blocks needed to develop 
SBM, and the frameworks and tools that can implement an SBM (e.g., Breuer et al., 2018; Geissdoerfer et 
al., 2016; Zollo et al., 2013). The study of the BM regarding sustainability is still in its early stages. 
Researchers generally regard BMI, whether concerned with sustainability or not, as critical to firm 
performance, the process focus, and, more specifically, the events that trigger the BMI process 
(Osterwalder et al., 2005). Yet BMI as a process is still relatively unexplored.  Several researchers called 
for more research on the design and development of SBMs (Breuer et al., 2018; Geissdoerfer et al., 2016; 
Roome & Louche, 2016). In particular, they encouraged researchers to emphasize the process of 
sustainable BMI by focusing on the “how” questions related to the development of sustainable BMI in 
practice.  
When it comes to SBM innovation, there are many challenges. BM literature usually categorizes barriers 
as internal or external to the firm (Ulvenblad et al, 2018; Bocken & Gerardts, 2020). External barriers are 
mainly external to the firm such as lack of external funding opportunities, no government support in form 
of training and guidelines, or lack of coherent legislation. Internal barriers originate within the firm and 
could be perceived as challenges that could be handled or managed (to some degree). For example, 
unclear business strategy, restrictive mindsets, or lack of in-house knowledge. Despite many studies that 
focus on the challenges/barriers of SBM, we have limited knowledge of how identified barriers relate to 
outcomes of the SBM process (Bocken and Gerardts, 2020). In addition, there is a limited understanding 
of the different internal and external factors to sustainability transitions (Hernández-Chea et al. 2021). 
Regarding SMEs, one-third of SMEs in the EU struggle with complex administrative and legal procedures 
when trying to make their business more resource-efficient (European Commission 2020). Thus, we need 
to elaborate on barriers and drivers of the BMI process, especially for SMEs with great potential but with 
limited resources of making that transformation.  
Thus, the question that emerges here is how SMEs can integrate and implement the SDGs into their 
strategy, which relates to both the company's BM and business development, as well as its social 
responsibility, and thus create profitable and sustainable companies. So, to support and enable SMEs to 
implement a SBM that is integrated into their daily lives, there must be support in the public and private 
systems in a systematic manner. A comprehensive view of how firms should approach embedding 
sustainability in their BM is needed. Thus, this paper aims to study and evaluate the SMEs that respond 
to sustainable development in their BM. In another word, this study will answer the following question: 
what barriers do SMEs face during the transition into SBM?  
To identify challenges and barriers for SMEs, A qualitative approach will be applied by conducting semi-
structured interviews and workshops with 10 SMEs from the manufacturing sector in Sweden which is in 
the early phase of sustainability transition in their BM. The interview and workshop will include people 
who have different roles in the companies. We will analyze their BM, sustainability impact, and identify 
barriers as well as drivers to develop and implement SBM. Secondary data has been collected from the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
739 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
five SME’s websites (Table 1) and more data will be collected from the rest of the companies as this is still 
an ongoing study. 
Furthermore, when comparing empirical data with the challenges that are identified in the literature, we 
expect to present a typology of different types of barriers for SMEs while transitioning to SBM. The 
expected result include a conceptual framework that focus on sustainability transitions in SMEs from a 
multi-level perspective (Hernández-Chea et al. 2021). Following the step of identifying challenges and 
barriers, this paper aims to provide potential opportunities to alleviate the impact of these challenges and 
a guideline to support the decision-making process of SMEs in the manufacturing sector in light of their 
transition to SBM.    
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. SMEs participating in the research project 
 
Keywords  
Business Model (BM), Business Model Innovation (BMI), Sustainable Business Model (SBM), Small and 
mid-size enterprises (SMEs), challenges. 
References  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
740 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Bjorkdahl, J. & Holmén, M. (2013) Editorial: Business model innovation – The challenges ahead. International Journal 
of Product Development. 18 (3/4), 213–225. 
Boons, F. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013). Business models for sustainable innovation: state-of-the-art and steps towards 
a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production. 45, 9–19. 
Cavalcante, S. A. (2011). A Process-Based View of Business Model Dynamics: An exploratory study. 
Handelshøjskolen, Aarhus Universitet. 
Gibson, E. & Jetter, A. (2014). Towards a dynamic process for business model innovation: A review of the state-of-
the-art," Proceedings of PICMET '14 Conference: Portland International Center for Management of 
Engineering and Technology; Infrastructure and Service Integration, pp. 1230-1238. 
Sosna, M., Trevinyo-Rodríguez, R. N. & Velamuri, S. R. (2010) Business model innovation through trialand-error 
learning: The Naturhouse case. Long range planning. 43 (2-3), 383-407. 
Teece, D.  J. (2010) Business models, business strategy and innovation. Long Range Planning. 43 (2-3), 172-194. 
Velamuri, S. R., Anant, P. & Kumar, V. (2015) Doing Well to do Good: Business Model Innovation for Social Healthcare. 
Advances in Strategic Management, Volume on Business Models and Modelling, Volume 33, 279-308. 
Velu, C. (2016) Evolutionary or revolutionary business model innovation through coopetition? The role of dominance 
in network markets. Industrial Marketing Management. 53, 124-135. 
Alonso-Martinez, D., De Marchi, V. & Di Maria, E. (2021) The sustainability performances of sustainable business 
models. Journal of Cleaner Production. 323, 1–11. 
Bidmon, C.M. & Knab, S.F. (2018) The Three Roles of Business Models in Societal Transitions: New Linkages between 
Business Model and Transition Research. Journal of Cleaner Production. 178, 903–916. 
Bocken, N. M. & Geradts, T. H. (2020) Barriers and drivers to sustainable business model innovation: Organization 
design and dynamic capabilities. Long Range Planning. 53 (4), 101950. 
Bocken, N. M. P. Short, S. W. Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice review to develop sustainable 
business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production.  65, 42–56. 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Tiemann, I. (2018) Sustainability-oriented business model development: 
Principles, criteria, and tools. International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing. 10 (2), 256-286. 
European Commission. (2020) Communication from the commission to the 
eouropan European 
parlianemtparliament, the coincilcouncil, the european European economic and soacial social 
commenttecommittee, and the commette committee of the region. An SME Strategy for a sustainable and 
digital Europe. Brussels, 10.3.2020. COM (2020) 103 final. Available from https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/?qid=1593507563224&uri=CELEX:52020DC0103. [Accessed 14th February 2022]. 
Geels, F.W. (2019) Socio-Technical Transitions to Sustainability: A Review of Criticisms and Elaborations of the Multi-
Level Perspective. Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability. 39, 187–201. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Bocken, N. M. P. & Hultink, E. J. (2016) Design thinking to enhance the sustainable business 
modelling modeling process—A workshop based on a value mapping process. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 135, 1218–1232. 
Guldmann, E. & Huulgaard, R. D. (2020) Barriers to circular business model innovation: a multiple-case study. Journal 
of Cleaner Production. 243, 118-160.  
Hernández-Chea, R., Jain, A., Bocken, N.M.P. & Gurtoo, A. (2021) The Business Model in Sustainability Transitions: A 
Conceptualization. Sustainability. 13, 5763 
Köhler, J., de Haan, F. & Holtz, G. (2018) Modelling Sustainability Transitions: An Assessment of Approaches and 
Challenges. Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation. 21(1). 
Köhler, J., Geels, F.W., Kern, F., Markard, J., Onsongo, E., Wieczorek, A., Alkemade, F., Avelino, F., Bergek, A., Boons, 
F., et al. (2019) An Agenda for Sustainability Transitions Research: State of the Art and Future Directions. 
Environ. Environmental Innovation and Societal. 31, 1–32. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2010) Towards a Conceptual Framework of Business Models for Sustainability. In Knowledge 
Collaboration and Learning for Sustainable Development, edited by J. Q. R. Wever, A. Tukker, J. Woudstra, 
F. Boons, N. Beute. Delft 
Lynch, D.H., Klaassen, P., Van Wassenaer, L. & Broerse, J.E. (2020) Constructing the Public in Roadmapping the 
Transition to a Bioeconomy: A Case Study from the Netherlands. Sustainability. 12 (8), 3179. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
741 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Nosratabadi, S., Mosavi, A., Shamshirband, S., Kazimieras Zavadskas, E., Rakotonirainy, A. & Chau, K.W. (2019) 
Sustainable Business Models: A Review. Sustainability. 11, 1663. 
Osterwalder, A., Pigneur, Y. & Tucci, CL. (2005) Clarifying business models: Origins, present, and future of the 
concept. Communications of the Association for Information Systems, 16, 1-25. 
Pieroni, P. P. M., McAloone, C. T., & Pigosso, C. A. D. (2019) Business model innovation for circular economy and 
sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of Cleaner Production. 215, 198–216. 
Roome, N. & Louche, C. (2016) Journeying toward business models for sustainability: A conceptual model found 
inside the black box of organizational transformation. Organization & Environment. 29 (1), 11–35 
Schaltegger, S. Hansen, E. G. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, present 
research, and future avenues. Organization & Environment. 29 (1), 3–10. 
Ulvenblad, P., Ulvenblad, P. & Tell, J. (2018) An overview of sustainable business models for innovation in Swedish 
agri-food production. Journal of Integrative Environmental Sciences. 16 (1), 1–22.  
Zollo, M., Cennamo, C. & Neumann, K. (2013) Beyond what and why: Understanding organizational evolution 
towards sustainable enterprise models. Organization & Environment. 26 (3), 241-259. 
Do they see eye to eye? Management 
and customer viewpoints of ordinary 
and extraordinary experience in a 
phygital scenario 
 
Pusceddu1,* 
1 
* 
Abstract   
Phygital is increasingly playing a pivotal role in our daily lives. However, while research about online and 
offline customer experiences is long-established, questions remain about the features of phygital 
customer experiences and effective customer experience management tactics in a phygital context. The 
purpose of this study is to empirically examine the phygital customer experiences based on the intensity 
of consumers’ responses and reactions to stimuli. Our primary contribution is to develop a framework for 
understanding the kinds of extraordinary and ordinary customer experiences in phygital contexts. In 
closing, we offer some implications and extensions for future research based on our theoretical 
development. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
742 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 3.1 - Assessing and Managing the 
Sustainability Performance of Business 
Models 
Track chairs: Florian Lüdeke-Freund (ESCP Business 
School) and Romana Rauter (University of Graz) 
 
Assessing and managing the sustainability performance of business models requires 
exploring and integrating various topics and concepts (e.g. business model, systems level 
approaches) as well as tools and metrics (e.g. from fields such as sustainability reporting 
and accounting, life cycle assessment).  
This track is open to conceptual and empirical papers that integrate the notions of business 
model and sustainability performance in new and convincing ways. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
743 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Exploring the implications of the 
value concept for performance 
assessment of sustainable business 
models 
 
Simon Norris* 
Centre for Sustainability Management, Leuphana University Lüneburg 
*norris@leuphana.de 
Abstract 
It is commonly accepted that the performance of sustainable business models is determined by 
their value creation for stakeholders, primarily understood in aggregated macro-level social, 
ecological and economic terms. However, very few studies attempt to measure this value creation 
beyond qualitative evaluations of firms, and the ones that do, focus on measuring the output of the 
firm. Because these output-based and firm-based metrics do not measure the fulfilment of 
stakeholder needs, they can only approximate actual stakeholder value creation. This implies that 
the conceptualisation and operationalisation of value created with sustainable business models 
require further clarification. In response, this paper analyses the characteristics of value itself based 
on insights from marketing and stakeholder research and how this affects the understanding of a 
business model’s sustainability performance. Conceptual propositions for value-based 
performance assessment of sustainable business models are derived from the characteristics of 
subjectivity and heterogeneity, relationality and experientiality, idiosyncrasy, incommensurability, 
one-sidedness and non-linearity, situation-specificity and transience, and interdependence. The 
analysis suggest that the trinity of ecological, social and economic value needs to be reformed with 
a value concept based on stakeholder-specific need-fulfilment that allows actual assessment of 
stakeholder value creation. This assessment can only be conducted in collaboration with the 
stakeholders whose needs are being addressed. 
Keywords  
Sustainable business model, stakeholders, value, performance, assessment, measurement  
1. Introduction 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
744 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Sustainable business models pursue the goal of value creation for an organisation’s various 
stakeholders (Stubbs and Cocklin, 2008). The performance of sustainable business models is 
primarily understood qualitatively as the aggregated dimensions of social, ecological and economic 
value (e.g. Patala et al., 2016; Schaltegger, Hansen and Lüdeke-Freund, 2016), or through specific 
quantitative metrics, such as CO2 emissions (e.g. Alonso-Martinez, Marchi and Di Maria, 2021). 
However, following stakeholder theory (Freeman, Wicks and Parmar, 2004; Harrison and Wicks, 
2013), the creation of stakeholder value is based on the degree to which a firm meets the respective 
stakeholder needs. These needs are highly subjective with regard to the differentiated and partly 
idiosyncratic stakes of each stakeholder. For instance, employees have different stakes compared 
to investors, and face different needs and different dimensions through which they perceive the 
value offered.  
However, the SBM literature provides no causal justification rooted in the origins and attributes of 
value that economy, society, and environment are the dimensions through which all stakeholders 
perceive value. At the same time, output-based quantitative metrics can at best approximate how 
much a business model fulfils stakeholder’s needs. These aspects show that the predominant 
conception of social, ecological and economic value is too broad to understand a business model’s 
sustainability performance with the necessary depth. If the objective of SBMs is to contribute to 
sustainability transformations with the creation of stakeholder value, performance assessment 
needs to reflect the characteristics of value itself. Few SBM authors define the central concept of 
value, with some notable exceptions (Breuer and Lüdeke-Freund, 2017; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2020; 
Upward and Jones, 2016). A discussion of the central construct of value and its implications for the 
understanding of an SBM’s performance is missing, even when performance is explicitly analysed 
(e.g. Alonso-Martinez, Marchi and Di Maria, 2021). Comparing the richness of analogous insights 
from marketing research on the nature of customer value (Gummerus, 2013; Sweeney and Soutar, 
2001) with the value notion used in the SBM literature suggests that the latter is underdeveloped. 
This paper discusses the nature of value and how its characteristics should be reflected in the 
assessment of business models’ sustainability performance. This objective is reflected in the 
following research question: 
What are the implications of the value concept for the assessment of a business model’s 
sustainability performance? 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
745 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2. Current perspectives on value and performance of 
sustainable business models 
The concept of the business model explains what value is offered and how it is created and 
delivered (Boons and Lüdeke-Freund, 2013; Teece, 2010). There is overwhelming support that the 
primary objective of sustainable business models’ on the organisational level is value creation for 
its stakeholders (Bocken et al., 2014; Freudenreich, Lüdeke-Freund and Schaltegger, 2020; 
Schaltegger, Hansen and Lüdeke-Freund, 2016). This value creation can contribute to other 
purposes such as meso-level or macro-level sustainability transformations of markets, industries or 
society (Schaltegger, Hansen and Lüdeke-Freund, 2016; Stubbs and Cocklin, 2008). To understand 
the performance impact such business models have, it is thus crucial to assess the kinds and amount 
of value they are creating (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2017). The literature distinguishes the aggregated 
dimensions of social, ecological and economic value (Evans et al., 2017), which is primarily assessed 
qualitatively through the value proposed by a firm (e.g. Bocken et al., 2014; Snihur and Bocken, 
2022). The few authors proposing quantitative measures or measuring SBMs’ sustainability 
performance quantitatively have aligned themselves with the notion of stakeholder value creation 
(e.g. Alonso-Martinez, Marchi and Di Maria, 2021; Ilyas and Osiyevskyy, 2021; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 
2017). Lüdeke-Freund et al. (2017), for example, argue for prioritising performance management 
of issues with high materiality for stakeholders, which could then be assessed via indicators of the 
GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standard. However, the output-based performance metrics that 
are then commonly used to understand performance do not measure whether or how much 
stakeholders value these outputs. In the literature, quantitative performance assessment is thus 
relying primarily on a conflation of outputs and needs via proxy indicators rather than direct 
measures of stakeholder value. While the sustainability performance assessment literature 
suggests a stakeholder perspective (e.g. Silva, Nuzum and Schaltegger, 2019), an evaluation of 
value, through intended recipient stakeholders, has not been attempted so far. 
Snihur and Bocken (2022) explain this dearth of quantitative performance assessments with a lack 
of construct clarity and replicable impact measures. Indeed, these gaps in the existing literature can 
be traced to either broad and generic conceptualisations of value or even a lack thereof. 
Surprisingly, few SBM papers provide an explanation of what value is and when it occurs (exceptions 
include Breuer and Lüdeke-Freund, 2017; Freudenreich, Lüdeke-Freund and Schaltegger, 2020; 
Upward and Jones, 2016). Upward and Jones (2016), in line with these other authors, draw on 
human sciences and explain value as an actor’s perception of a fundamental need (e.g. functional 
or psychological) being met by certain satisfiers (e.g. a product or service). However, the stream of 
literature cognisant of the origin of value also tends to assume that the needs of stakeholders are 
of social, ecological and economic nature: “Sustainable value incorporates economic, social and 
environmental benefits conceptualized as value forms” (Evans et al., 2017, p. 601). 
In this regard, it often remains unclear whether economic, social and ecological value refers to the 
recipient (e.g. society being the subject) or the content of value (e.g. Evans et al., 2017). Both 
interpretations have conceptual issues. In the first case (recipient), the subjects would be too 
heterogeneous in themselves to identify their common needs (e.g. what the needs of all of society 
are). The inanimate parts of nature are even incapable of having needs, such as resource deposits 
having neither needs nor agency to claim them without the aid of other stakeholders. Additionally, 
most actors interact with more than one domain, with the prime example being the firm itself. In 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
746 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the latter case (content), it is unclear who the recipient would be, and whether the needs of all 
stakeholders could really be summarised in these three dimensions. The relationship between an 
individual’s perception (e.g. a stakeholder) of psychological or functional value (e.g. Sweeney and 
Soutar, 2001) and the aggregated social, ecological and economic dimensions dominating the SBM 
literature has never been explained convincingly. 
Lüdeke-Freund et al. (2020, p. 75) conclude that this trinity is “but a placeholder for the value 
pluralism that must be acknowledged when a stakeholder-responsive interpretation of value is 
applied”. Additionally, other characteristics of value (e.g. idiosyncrasies or incommensurability, 
Gummerus, 2013) have not been discussed in the light of their implications for performance 
assessment. If the purpose and conceptual distinctiveness of business models are based on the 
value concept, then performance needs to be assessed through this lens. Before existing 
performance management approaches could be adapted, it should be explored how the central 
notion of value affects the very understanding of sustainability performance itself. 
3. Analysing the characteristics of value for assessing 
the sustainability performance of business models 
Various conceptions of value exist, for instance rooted in strategic management and micro-
economic theory, or marketing research. From the strategic management perspective, value is 
primarily measured as economic exchange value created by the firm’s bundling of resources that is 
captured by the firm or other actors (Bowman and Ambrosini, 2000). However, this approach only 
measures the value actors are willing to give up in return, not the value they actually perceive (e.g. 
Gummerus, 2013). Such a perceived use value has to exist and exceed the exchange value for actors 
to engage in an exchange, else there would be no benefit to it. Monetary units can only capture 
extrinsic elements of this excess use value (i.e. potential for more economic value creation), as 
intrinsic elements such as emotional well-being cannot be easily priced. An emphasis on measuring 
financial value would also subordinate social and ecological objectives to economic goals (Harrison 
and Wicks, 2013). Additionally, as finances are finite and tangible, measuring only exchange value 
creation would lead to a zero-sum game, where value could only be ‘created’ by appropriating more 
value from other stakeholders. 
This paper thus builds on and extends the SBM literature with a value concept based on consumer 
marketing and stakeholder theory (e.g. Gummerus, 2013; Harrison and Wicks, 2013; Sweeney and 
Soutar, 2001). The following, partially interrelated characteristics of value are analysed in this 
section: Subjectivity and heterogeneity, relationality and experientiality, idiosyncrasy, 
incommensurability, non-linearity and one-sidedness, situation-specificity and transience, and 
interdependence. Based on these aspects, propositions are derived for the design of a value-based 
performance assessment system. 
3.1 Subjectivity and heterogeneity 
Value is subjective in that both its dimensions and the desired amount are determined by the 
respective needs and values of a stakeholder (Upward and Jones, 2016). These needs express 
themselves heterogeneously across stakeholder groups. Business models relate to stakeholders on 
the individual level (e.g. employees, consumers, or community members) and organisational level 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
747 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
(B2B customers, business partners, NGOs, or public authorities). For instance, individual consumers 
will perceive value also in terms of positive emotional states (Sweeney and Soutar, 2001), while 
business partners’ criteria could be more closely related to rational economic, social and ecological 
dimensions (Patala et al., 2016). These fundamentally different interests on different levels need to 
be reflected in performance assessment dimensions. Applying the ecological, social, and economic 
dimensions to all stakeholders does injustice to the plurality of stakeholder interests, and 
contradicts well-established research on individual-level value (e.g. consumer value, Gummerus, 
2013). For example, the widely-used PERVAL (perceived value) scale of Sweeney and Soutar (2001) 
measures consumer perceptions of the fulfilment of key value dimensions (functionality, and 
emotional or social appeal). Analogous measures are required for other stakeholder groups. Finally, 
inanimate or conflated objects or variables without interests or needs cannot perceive value. It is 
thus questionable whether value is a concept that can be applied to a monolithic “ecology” or 
“society” stakeholder that actually conflates various actors or even inanimate objects without 
agency. Nonetheless, societal and ecological impacts can be of value to other stakeholders and the 
firm itself (e.g. societal and ecological stability). 
Proposition 1a: Value-based performance metrics need to reflect stakeholder needs rather than firm 
outputs. 
Additionally, if value is based on specific needs (Upward and Jones, 2016), business model 
performance needs to be assessed through the subjective extent to which a need is met rather than 
‘raw output’ alone. For example, value-based performance cannot be measured in terms of carbon 
emissions or wage levels, only in terms of how these meet stakeholders’ needs for environmental 
protection or fair reimbursement. A specific output of a business model can thus be considered a 
satisfier if it can be causally linked to at least one stakeholder need. Stakeholders will hold certain 
expectations regarding their desired fulfilment of a need (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2020; Stubbs and 
Cocklin, 2008). This also means that performance assessment based on value can only be conducted 
together with the respective stakeholders, and never by the firm alone. Stakeholders need to be 
asked how they perceive the fulfilment of their needs based on what the business model offers 
them (Castellas, Stubbs and Ambrosini, 2019). The outputs of the firm can only be measured as 
satisfiers to those needs (Upward and Jones, 2016). 
Proposition 1b: Value-based performance needs to be assessed through the perceived degree of 
stakeholder need fulfilment rather than firm outputs. 
3.2 Relationality and experientiality 
Many authors consider only tangible exchanges of outputs between the firm and its stakeholders 
(for an overview, see Freudenreich, Lüdeke-Freund and Schaltegger, 2020) as satisfiers for 
stakeholder needs. However, value creation is relational and experiential because stakeholders 
evaluate not just the value of an output, but also the relationship itself through which this exchange 
takes place (Gummerus, 2013; Harrison and Wicks, 2013). The needs of stakeholders are affected 
by the tangible exchanges, psychological and social effects of affiliation to the firm, and treatment 
by the firm in the firm-stakeholder relationship (Freudenreich, Lüdeke-Freund and Schaltegger, 
2020; Harrison and Wicks, 2013). Harrison and Wicks (2013) argue that stakeholders’ perception of 
value is driven, for instance, by perceptions of just conduct vis-a-vis themselves and others, or 
reputational benefits from affiliation with a socially-responsible firm. This means that value should 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
748 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
not only be assessed as a consequence of exchanged goods or services alone, but as the experience 
of the entire relationship (Gummerus, 2013). The unit of analysis for performance assessment is 
thus extended by these characteristics: Whereas the value perceived is usually considered to be 
contained in the value proposition component only (Bocken et al., 2014; Boons and Lüdeke-Freund, 
2013), the activities and relationships through which this value proposition is created also affect 
the needs of involved stakeholders. 
Proposition 2: Value-based performance assessment includes satisfiers that reflect the entire 
experience of the firm-stakeholder relationship (i.e. tangible exchanges, treatment, and affiliation 
to the firm). 
3.3 Idiosyncrasy 
Because value is subjective to stakeholders’ needs, certain value dimensions can be also 
idiosyncratic to particular stakeholders (Gummerus, 2013). As each stakeholder has by definition a 
unique stake in the business model (Freudenreich, Lüdeke-Freund and Schaltegger, 2020), 
stakeholder needs are not necessarily shared across stakeholder groups. For instance, while career 
development may be an important outcome for employees, it would not be a relevant outcome for 
consumers (unless it provides emotional value to the consumer). Uniform value dimensions across 
the business model’s stakeholders (i.e. social, ecological, economic value) would only be 
permissible for performance assessment where interests converge. Employees, consumers and 
community members, for instance, may share an emotional need for environmental protection 
despite their unique stakes. It should thus be determined which needs apply to one, to several, or 
to all stakeholders. This ultimately leads to a mixed set of ‘universal’ and stakeholder-idiosyncratic 
needs and thus indicators for performance assessment. 
Proposition 3: Value-based performance assessment should distinguish between more universal and 
idiosyncratic needs and assign them to the applicable stakeholders. 
3.4 Incommensurability 
The heterogeneity and idiosyncrasies of value dimensions result in an incommensurability of value 
(i.e. inability to simply add value dimensions on top of each other) within and across stakeholders 
(Castellas, Stubbs and Ambrosini, 2019). Heterogeneous drivers of value such as personal 
development for employees or the creation of jobs for governments cannot be easily added and 
transmuted into one singular dimension of total social value. This lack of a common scale means 
that it is not possible to aggregate all the value that is created into one economic, ecological, or 
social figure. Additionally, measuring and aggregating value through translation into monetary 
terms may only capture the value a stakeholder is willing to exchange (Bowman and Ambrosini, 
2000) rather than the value they actually perceive. At the same time, if some needs are idiosyncratic 
to one or a few stakeholders, they should not be assessed in aggregated one figure that applies to 
all stakeholders. Instead, the characteristic of subjectivity provides a solution to this challenge: If 
value should be assessed based on the relative fulfilment (for example using Likert-scaled items) of 
needs, some form of average fulfilment (e.g. median score rather than a total) might be taken for 
each stakeholder, or even for all stakeholders. However, these average figures need to be evaluated 
in the context of the deviations from that average in order to understand whether some 
conventional needs (e.g. financial) or stakeholders (e.g. shareholders) are disproportionally 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
749 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
addressed. When the averages of two firms are similar, but the deviations from that average are 
lower for one firm, than that firm displays a more balanced consideration of stakeholder needs. 
Proposition 4a: The assessment of overall value creation within and across stakeholder groups 
should be conducted through normalised figures of average fulfilment of stakeholder needs. 
Proposition 4b: The balance of value creation within and across stakeholder groups can be assessed 
through the size of deviations of individual needs and stakeholders from the average fulfilment of 
stakeholder needs. 
3.5 Non-linearity and one-sidedness 
The relationship between a satisfier and the perception of value by stakeholders can follow non-
linear and one-sided functions. Increasing or decreasing the performance of a good from a 
particular reference point can have diminishing effects on marginal utility (Kahneman and Tversky, 
1979). At the same time, satisfiers can have stronger or exclusively one-sided effects on either the 
positive or negative side, as illustrated by the Kano Model of customer satisfaction (Matzler and 
Hinterhuber, 1998): A value satisfier might have a primarily negative effect when absent because it 
is expected but does not excite (e.g. basic expectations). Petersen, Hörisch and Jacobs (2021), for 
example, find that consumers disvalue offers associated with CO2 emissions above industry 
average, but see little added value in below-average emissions, at least for the low involvement 
product of batteries. Conversely, value drivers may have a primarily positive effect because they 
are not expected (yet) but excite when present (e.g. for latent needs; Matzler and Hinterhuber, 
1998). One-sidedness is not exclusive to customers, as illustrated by the similar two-factor model 
of hygiene (negative) and motivator (positive) factors of employees’ satisfaction (Herzberg, 1987). 
For example, while timely payment of wages may not yield positive associations of value, late 
payment will definitely result in negative ones. For assessment, this means that dimensions can 
have only negative or positive effects on the average need fulfilment. This also supports that 
assessment of value can only be conducted in dialogue with stakeholders, and has to be based on 
their expectations. Similar to the Kano Model assessment (Matzler and Hinterhuber, 1998), 
stakeholders can be asked how they would feel if a certain satisfier would be present, and how they 
would feel in the opposite case. 
Proposition 5: The scales for value assessment should reflect the directionality (positive, negative, 
or both) of need satisfiers. 
3.6 Situation-specificity and transience 
The value of an interaction or experience is situational in that it depends the context of the 
interaction or experience (Gummerus, 2013). Individuals can take multiple stakeholder roles 
(Upward and Jones, 2016), such as employee, customer and member of a community. The salience 
of their role can shift depending on the situation (e.g. being at work vs. being in a store), also shifting 
the salience of perceived value dimensions. Lüdeke-Freund et al. (2017, p. 186) argue that business 
models reflect a contextual logic that “expresses a business model’s value framing with regard to 
its socio-cultural, political, legal, economic, and technological spheres.” While this notion of value 
framing is not explored further, it implies that these spheres affect the needs and values of 
stakeholders (values and value are related, but distinct, Breuer and Lüdeke-Freund, 2017). This 
means that the correlation between a firm’s satisfiers (output) and the value they create behaves 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
750 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
differently across different settings (e.g. countries or social groups). For instance, establishing the 
same working conditions could create different amounts value for a textile factory worker in 
Western Europe compared to South(-east) Asia due to differing pre-existing reference points. These 
makes it hard to transfer value assessments across contexts or spheres, and thus require separately 
designed measures cognisant of needs, values, and expectations. 
Additionally, value perceptions are also transient because expectations change with time (Boons 
and Lüdeke-Freund, 2013). Over time, the excitement of satisfiers wanes, turning qualities into 
linear or basic ones that are expected to be present (Matzler and Hinterhuber, 1998). While this 
related initially to new excitement features of products, stakeholder expectations regarding their 
treatment (e.g. labour conditions) may solidify similarly. For instance, if a company introduces new 
satisfiers to the aforementioned workers accustomed to a different standard, the satisfier will over 
time wane so that it behaves similar compared to the value for a textile worker accustomed to a 
higher standard. The correlation between a satisfier and the value it creates will thus change 
naturally over time. 
Proposition 6: The various contextual spheres and the situation of stakeholders change the needs 
that define which value is perceived and their relationship to satisfiers. 
3.7 Interdependence 
Every business model represents an activity system of causal relationships between repeated 
activities or choices that transform resources into valuable satisfiers (Casadesus-Masanell and 
Ricart, 2010; Zott and Amit, 2010). Understanding these causal relationships is less important for 
assessing performance itself, than for understanding and increasing its drivers (i.e. how value is 
created. In this context, different kinds of value and their creation are interdependent for two 
reasons. First, business models transform stakeholder contributions into valuable outputs for other 
stakeholders (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2020). Suppliers or employees, for example, contribute to the 
creation of products and services, while the capture of revenues allows the reimbursement of said 
stakeholders (Norris, Hagenbeck and Schaltegger, 2021). Second, value offered to one stakeholder 
may create spill-over effects within and across stakeholders. Within a stakeholder, the different 
value dimensions may affect each other, such as exceptional functionality enhancing the joy derived 
from a product (Sweeney and Soutar, 2001). Across stakeholders, the perception of just, socially-
desirable treatment of stakeholders (Harrison and Wicks, 2013) may be a source of emotional value 
and social-enhancement value for consumers (Sweeney and Soutar, 2001) and other stakeholders. 
These aspects suggest that the creation of value for one stakeholder is often the prerequisite for 
creating for others (Castellas, Stubbs and Ambrosini, 2019). Figure 1 illustrates the simplified and 
non-exhaustive interdependencies and stakeholders through the example of employees and 
consumers. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
751 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
FIGURE 10 INTERDEPENDENCIES AND SPILL-OVERS BETWEEN STAKEHOLDER VALUE 
 
In practice, detailed and accurate analyses of value interdependencies should include both the 
activity system itself, the roles and contributions stakeholders make, as well as their needs and 
satisfiers. However, existing approaches considering activity systems are usually stakeholder-
unspecific, need-unspecific, or both (e.g. Abdelkafi and Täuscher, 2016; Brehmer, Podoynitsyna and 
Langerak, 2018). 
Proposition 7a: Value-based performance assessment needs to map interdependencies in the 
activity system between the needs for stakeholders and their reciprocal contribution to satisfying 
the needs of other stakeholders. 
Proposition 7b: Value-based performance assessment needs to map potential indirect spill-overs 
between needs within and across stakeholders. 
3.8 Concluding summary of the analysis 
The analysis illustrates that performance can only be assessed under consideration of the 
subjective, heterogeneous, idiosyncratic, interdependent and dynamic needs of stakeholders. This 
requires active involvement of stakeholders in the assessment process, both in determining the 
kinds and relevance of needs as well as the extent to which they are satisfied. Table 1 summarises 
the propositions that emerged from the analysis of the value concept’s implications for the 
performance assessment of sustainable business models. 
TABLE 7 CHARACTERISTICS OF VALUE AND PROPOSITION FOR VALUE-BASED PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT 
Value characteristic:  
Value is… 
Proposition for assessing value-based performance 
…subjective and heterogeneous: 
Dimensions and required amount 
of value are defined by the needs 
of stakeholders, leading to a 
plurality of heterogeneous value 
types. 
Proposition 1a: Value-based performance metrics need to 
reflect stakeholder needs rather than firm outputs.  
 
Proposition 1b: Value-based performance needs to be 
assessed through the perceived degree of stakeholder need 
fulfilment rather than firm outputs. 
Firm
Marketing 
OM/SC 
activities
HRM 
activities
Employees 
(Example needs: Livelihood, 
social interaction / 
recognition, personal 
development, …)
Consumers
(Example needs: Product 
function, emotional well-
being, social recognition, …)
Within-stakeholder spill-over 
(e.g. functionality →emotions)
Cross-stakeholder spill-over 
(e.g. just treatment of workers, 
pride of customer value creation)

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
752 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
…relational and experiential: 
Value is based on the experience 
of outcomes of and treatment in 
the firm-stakeholder relationship. 
 
Proposition 2: Value-based performance assessment 
includes satisfiers that reflect the entire experience of the 
firm-stakeholder relationship (i.e. tangible exchanges, 
treatment, and affiliation to the firm). 
…partially idiosyncratic: Many 
needs are specific to only one or a 
few particular stakeholders. 
 
Proposition 3: Value-based performance assessment 
should 
distinguish 
between 
more 
universal 
and 
idiosyncratic needs and assign them to the applicable 
stakeholders. 
…incommensurable: It is 
impossible to add different kinds 
of value into a total. 
Proposition 4a: The assessment of overall value creation 
within and across stakeholder groups should be conducted 
through normalised figures of average fulfilment of 
stakeholder needs. 
 
Proposition 4b: The balance of value creation within and 
across stakeholder groups can be assessed through the size 
of deviations of individual needs and stakeholders from the 
average fulfilment of stakeholder needs. 
 
…potentially one-sided and non-
linear: Satisfiers may create only 
positive or negative effects, which 
can diminish or escalate the 
further an experience moves from 
the reference point. 
 
Proposition 5: The scales for value assessment should 
reflect the directionality (positive, negative, or both) of 
need satisfiers. 
…situational and transient: 
Needs and value differ across 
contexts and situations 
stakeholders find themselves in. 
 
Proposition 6: The various contextual spheres and the 
situation of stakeholders change the needs that define 
which value is perceived and their relationship to satisfiers. 
…interdependent: Different kinds 
of value can be a prerequisite or 
satisfier for other kinds of value 
within and across stakeholders. 
Proposition 7a: Value-based performance assessment 
needs to map interdependencies in the activity system 
between the needs for stakeholders and their reciprocal 
contribution to satisfying the needs of other stakeholders. 
Proposition 7b: Value-based performance assessment 
needs to map potential indirect spill-overs between needs 
within and across stakeholders. 
 
 
4. Discussion and conclusion 
If a business model’s primary purpose is to explain value creation (Teece, 2010), value has to be the 
basis of performance assessment. Approaches that do not account for the central construct of value 
(e.g. Alonso-Martinez, Marchi and Di Maria, 2021; Ilyas and Osiyevskyy, 2021) are thus suitable for 
other units of analysis, but miss the essence of the business model. In this regard, SBM research 
needs to adopt an evidence-based and theory-based value concept that reforms the normative 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
753 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
construct dominating the current discourse. In response, this paper advocates for a subject-specific 
need-fulfilment approach (extending Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2020) rather than measuring firm 
output to understand what value is created. While other forms of impact may be validly understood 
this way, value-based business model performance cannot be assessed without the evaluation by 
stakeholders themselves. This suggests a stakeholder perspective that has been conceptualised and 
operationalised insufficiently in the few previous studies on SBM performance (e.g. Alonso-
Martinez, Marchi and Di Maria, 2021; Ilyas and Osiyevskyy, 2021; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2017). If the 
entire relationship is relevant to stakeholders’ perceptions of value (Harrison & Wicks, 2013), the 
relationship improvement inherent in engaging in a stakeholder-based assessment may in itself 
represent a source of value. This mere-measurement effect has to be acknowledged as a natural 
consequence of the relationality of value creation. 
Due to their highly dynamic nature (Gummerus, 2013), value perceptions remain hard to assess, 
and which will always require adaptation across different contexts, similar to the utility of different 
consumer value scales in different situations. Taking a stakeholder perspective increases complexity 
and effort of the assessment (e.g. Silva, Nuzum and Schaltegger, 2019), which can constrains its 
granularity and comprehensiveness. For instance, it can be difficult for smaller organisations to 
assess value creation for heterogeneous subgroups that exist within most stakeholder groups (e.g. 
consumer segments). Nevertheless, this reconceptualization is required to remedy the construct 
and operationalisation issues that prevented the measurement of stakeholder value creation so far 
(Snihur and Bocken, 2022). While not the focus of this paper, stakeholder value creation is 
undoubtedly affecting wider societal and ecological variables (e.g. income equality or climate 
change) that should be represented as a separate but connected macro-level in performance 
assessment. 
However, because business models explain also how value is created (Boons and Lüdeke-Freund, 
2013), it is nonetheless important to measure the outputs as satisfiers to those stakeholder needs. 
The differentiation between subject-specific value and outputs of a firm enables correlating the 
performance to its drivers. At the same time, more output (or less in negative aspects) does not 
automatically result in higher value perceptions of stakeholders because it may not always be 
perceived as relevant to current stakeholder needs. Some stakeholders might for instance initially 
attribute little intrinsic value to environmental protection and thus be content with high 
greenhouse gas emissions. Because value expectations are dynamic rather than static or pre-
defined (Gummerus, 2013), companies can affect the importance and salience of needs toward 
sustainability. If companies want to create progress on macro-level environmental and societal 
issues, they need to find connections to micro-level stakeholder needs (e.g. psychological safety), 
or even create a connection if they find none. In other word, firms need to ensure that they turn as 
many outputs as possible into satisfiers by linking them to stakeholder needs. Assuming that value 
exists without a beholder or even for an abstract one (e.g. nature) is not only lacking grounding in 
value research (e.g. Gummerus, 2013), but can also hamper business models’ contributions toward 
sustainability transformations. 
The propositions developed here can also be understood as a design guideline (see Table 1) for 
managers seeking to understand and improve the sustainability performance of their business 
models. Sustainability reporting standards, particularly the Integrated Reporting (IR) standard, are 
acknowledging the role of the business model (Lüdeke-Freund and Dembek, 2017). The IR standard, 
however, emphasises the measurement of various types of resources or capital (e.g. natural or 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
754 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
human) rather than stakeholder need fulfilment. Going beyond this, practitioners should engage 
with their stakeholders directly, and ask them about their perceptions of need fulfilment, be it in 
semi-structured interviews or through structured surveys. The suggested separation of output and 
needs-based value allows managers to identify causal links between satisfiers and value. For 
instance, the capital-based metrics of the IR standard could be correlated to stakeholder 
perceptions of need fulfilment. This also helps diagnosing problems in companies’ stakeholder 
value propositions, e.g. when less environmental damage fails to elevate stakeholder value due to 
failure to relate it to stakeholder needs. 
Future research can operationalise the propositions in a stakeholder perceived value scale similar 
to consumer perceived value scales (Sweeney and Soutar, 2001). For this, the idiosyncratic and 
universal value dimensions based on each stakeholder’s needs have to be established and 
validated, for instance through phenomenological research with stakeholders. While the notion of 
consumer value is well-established in the marketing discipline (Gummerus, 2013), more insights 
could be integrated from disciplines concerned with other stakeholders. Supply chain management, 
human resource management, finance and corporate governance could for example yield insights 
into the needs of business partners, employees, and financial shareholders, respectively. The 
conceptual propositions of this paper will help translating these insights into SBM performance 
assessment systems reflective of the nature and origins of value. 
References 
Abdelkafi, N. and Täuscher, K. (2016) ‘Business Models for Sustainability From a System Dynamics 
Perspective’, Organization & Environment, 29(1), pp. 74–96. 
Alonso-Martinez, D., Marchi, V. de and Di Maria, E. (2021) ‘The sustainability performances of sustainable 
business models’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 323, p. 129145. 
Bocken, N. et al. (2014) ‘A literature and practice review to develop sustainable business model archetypes’, 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 65, pp. 42–56. 
Boons, F. and Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013) ‘Business models for sustainable innovation: State-of-the-art and 
steps towards a research agenda’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 45, pp. 9–19. 
Bowman, C. and Ambrosini, V. (2000) ‘Value Creation Versus Value Capture: Towards a Coherent Definition 
of Value in Strategy’, British Journal of Management, 11(1), pp. 1–15. 
Brehmer, M., Podoynitsyna, K. and Langerak, F. (2018) ‘Sustainable business models as boundary-spanning 
systems of value transfers’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 172, pp. 4514–4531. 
Breuer, H. and Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2017) ‘Values-based network and business model innovation’, 
International Journal of Innovation Management, 21(3) (35pp). 
Casadesus-Masanell, R. and Ricart, J.E. (2010) ‘From Strategy to Business Models and onto Tactics’, Long 
Range Planning, 43(2-3), pp. 195–215. 
Castellas, E.I., Stubbs, W. and Ambrosini, V. (2019) ‘Responding to Value Pluralism in Hybrid Organizations’, 
Journal of Business Ethics, 159(3), pp. 635–650. 
Evans, S. et al. (2017) ‘Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a Unified Perspective for 
Creation of Sustainable Business Models’, Business Strategy and the Environment, 26(5), pp. 597–
608. 
Freeman, R.E., Wicks, A.C. and Parmar, B. (2004) ‘Stakeholder Theory and "The Corporate Objective 
Revisited"’, Organization Science, 15(3), pp. 364–369. Available at: http://www.jstor.org/stable/
30034739. 
Freudenreich, B., Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Schaltegger, S. (2020) ‘A Stakeholder Theory Perspective on Business 
Models: Value Creation for Sustainability’, Journal of Business Ethics, 166, pp. 3–18. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
755 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Gummerus, J. (2013) ‘Value creation processes and value outcomes in marketing theory’, Marketing Theory, 
13(1), pp. 19–46. 
Harrison, J.S. and Wicks, A.C. (2013) ‘Stakeholder Theory, Value, and Firm Performance’, Business Ethics 
Quarterly, 23(1), pp. 97–124. 
Herzberg, F. (1987) ‘One More Time: How Do You Motivate Employees?’ Harvard Business Review (15pp). 
Ilyas, I.M. and Osiyevskyy, O. (2021) ‘Exploring the impact of sustainable value proposition on firm 
performance’, European Management Journal (12pp). 
Kahneman, D. and Tversky, A. (1979) ‘Prospect Theory: An Analysis of Decision under Risk’, Econometrica, 
47(2), p. 263. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. et al. (2017) ‘Sustainability-Oriented Business Model Assessment — A Conceptual 
Foundation’, in Carayannis, E.G. and Sindakis, S. (eds.) Analytics, Innovation, And Excellence-Driven 
Enterprise Sustainability. (Palgrave studies in democracy, innovation, and entrepreneurship for 
growth), pp. 169–206. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. et al. (2020) ‘Sustainable Value Creation Through Business Models: The What, the Who 
and the How’, Journal of Business Models, 8(3), pp. 62–90. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Dembek, K. (2017) ‘Sustainable business model research and practice: Emerging field 
or passing fancy?’ Journal of Cleaner Production, 168, pp. 1668–1678. 
Matzler, K. and Hinterhuber, H.H. (1998) ‘How to make product development projects more successful by 
integrating Kano's model of customer satisfaction into quality function deployment’, Technovation, 
18(1), pp. 25–38. 
Norris, S., Hagenbeck, J. and Schaltegger, S. (2021) ‘Linking sustainable business models and supply chains — 
Toward an integrated value creation framework’, Business Strategy and the Environment (15pp). 
Patala, S. et al. (2016) ‘Sustainable value propositions: Framework and implications for technology suppliers’, 
Industrial Marketing Management, 59, pp. 144–156. 
Petersen, L., Hörisch, J. and Jacobs, K. (2021) ‘Worse is worse and better doesn't matter? The effects of 
favorable and unfavorable environmental information on consumers’ willingness to pay’, Journal of 
Industrial Ecology, 25(5), pp. 1338–1356. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G. and Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) ‘Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, 
Present Research, and Future Avenues’, Organization & Environment, 29(1), pp. 3–10. 
Silva, S., Nuzum, A.-K. and Schaltegger, S. (2019) ‘Stakeholder expectations on sustainability performance 
measurement and assessment. A systematic literature review’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 217, 
pp. 204–215. 
Snihur, Y. and Bocken, N. (2022) ‘A call for action: The impact of business model innovation on business 
ecosystems, society and planet’, Long Range Planning, p. 102182. 
Stubbs, W. and Cocklin, C. (2008) ‘Conceptualizing a "Sustainability Business Model"’, Organization & 
Environment, 21(2), pp. 103–127. 
Sweeney, J.C. and Soutar, G.N. (2001) ‘Consumer perceived value: The development of a multiple item scale’, 
Journal of Retailing, 77(2), pp. 203–220. 
Teece, D.J. (2010) ‘Business Models, Business Strategy and Innovation’, Long Range Planning, 43(2-3), 
pp. 172–194. 
Upward, A. and Jones, P. (2016) ‘An Ontology for Strongly Sustainable Business Models’, Organization & 
Environment, 29(1), pp. 97–123. 
Zott, C. and Amit, R. (2010) ‘Business Model Design: An Activity System Perspective’, Long Range Planning, 
43(2-3), pp. 216–226 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
756 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Operationalizing Corporate 
Sustainability Implementation: A 
Scale Development Proposal 
 
Silvia Cantele1,*, Silvia Vernizzi1, Stefano Landi1, Silvia 
Valcozzena1 
1University of Verona Department of Business Administration 
*silvia.cantele@univr.it 
Abstract 
Given the relevance that the implementation of corporate sustainability has gained both from the 
academic and the practitioner points of view, this paper suggests a scale to measure the level of 
corporate sustainability implementation, operationalizing the sustainability concept through four 
dimensions: prosperity, planet, people and governance. 
Keywords 
Corporate sustainability, sustainability implementation, indicators, multi-level scale. 
Introduction 
The concept of Corporate Sustainability (CS) has received growing attention from both academic 
scholars and practitioners in the corporate world (Amini & Bienstock, 2014). CS is based on a holistic 
and systemic perspective to address the many challenges of sustainable development (Lankoski, 
2016; Lozano et al., 2015). It incorporates the Triple Bottom Line (TBL) concept (Elkington, 1998) in 
terms of environmental responsibility, economic prosperity, and social equity (Antolín-Lòpez et al., 
2016; Dyllick & Hockerts, 2002). Although there is an increasing interest in CS, the research has paid 
less attention to the related aspect of Corporate Sustainability Performance Measurement (CSPM) 
(Antolín-Lòpez et al., 2016; Dyllick & Muff, 2016). There is no single field of literature nor a 
standardized framework to measure CS, and often different terms are used, such as sustainability 
indicators (Hojnik et al., 2020; López-Arceiz, 2020; Rahdari & Rostamy, 2015), sustainability 
measurement (Asiaei et al., 2021; Antolín-Lòpez et al., 2016; Cagno et al., 2019), sustainability 
assessment (de Olde et al., 2017), or performance (Silva et al., 2019). The literature on CS 
measurement in a broad sense is ample, and yet there is still no agreement on how to actually 
measure CS. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
757 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Further, measuring CS is not only an issue of measuring results, outcomes, or performance: another 
relevant perspective is that of measuring the degree to which sustainability is put into practice in 
businesses. This perspective is useful to assess the level of maturity in sustainability implementation 
at the firm level, but also at higher levels of interest, such as within a specific cluster of firms 
belonging to an industry and/or a geographical area, where local public and private institutions can 
act to promote sustainability based on the state of art of its implementation among local firms. 
The corporate social performance model (Wood, 2010) indicates that three connected elements 
are pivotal: principles, processes, and performance, indicating that real performance is acquired 
only when responsibilities are acknowledged and processes are implemented. So, the first question 
that a business leader should ask himself/herself is “to what degree am I effectively managing the 
different aspects of sustainability?” or “What is the level of sustainability implementation in my 
business?” 
Some measures of sustainability implementation have been proposed in the Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) and the CS literature by the means of scales inspired by different frameworks 
(Cantele & Zardini, 2018; Wong et al., 2021), such as the CSR pyramid model (Carroll, 1991), 
sustainable development (UN World Commission on Environment and Development, 1987), the 
TBL concept (Elkington, 1998), stakeholder theory (Freeman, 1984), or other combinations of CSR 
practices, such as standards or certification adoption (Godos-Diez et al., 2021; Zhu et al., 2019). 
Based on these frameworks, the scales already used in the literature appear limited in terms of the 
number of aspects/items considered, as well as in reference to the more detailed requirements of 
the CSR/sustainability performances or indicators proposed in the academic literature and 
CSR/sustainability standards and guidelines available from professionals and the business world. 
This means that the existing scales are useful for empirical research purposes, but they fail to offer 
a comprehensive measure of sustainability implementation for business, which encompasses the 
complexity of the CS aspects to be considered. 
The aim of this research is to develop a multi-level scale of sustainability implementation, useful for 
firms (but also for clusters or trade associations assembling them into a specific territorial context) 
to self-assess their sustainability status, and for researchers who need a more comprehensive scale 
based on both the consolidated literature and the most recognized sustainability standards. 
 
Literature and standards review 
The literature on sustainability and CSR measurement is vast, and identifying relevant work is 
complex, given the different and not necessarily overlapping terms used in this field, such as 
performance, measure, indicators, impacts, outcomes, etc. Consistent with our research aims, the 
starting point of our work was the literature on CSR and sustainability scales, to define the higher-
order dimensions of sustainability, as well as the sustainability indicators literature, to enable the 
identification of candidate items for the scale proposal. 
With respect to higher-order dimensions, the literature on CSR and sustainability scales has largely 
used three approaches: Carroll’s model, sustainable development/TBL, and stakeholder theory 
(Cantele & Zardini, 2018; Wong et al., 2021). For example, Carroll’s model was used by Maignan 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
758 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
and Ferrell (2000) in their corporate citizenship scale, encompassing the economic, legal, ethical, 
and discretional dimensions of CSR. Turker (2009), on the other hand, develops his CSR scale by 
taking the stakeholder approach, thus considering CSR in terms of society, employees, customers, 
and government. The sustainable development or TBL approach characterizes those scales in terms 
of the operationalization of the dimensions of economic development, social equity, and 
environmental protection (Alvarado-Herrera et al., 2017). Scales based on a single approach 
present some limitations; for example, they do not consider the environmental dimensions or do 
not assess specific stakeholder relationships in any depth (Wong et al., 2021). 
From the sustainability indicators side, certain studies have proposed lists of indicators based on 
review of the literature or sustainability standards or a combination of these two sources. Antolín-
Lòpez et al. (2016) present a systematic literature review to identify the most relevant CSPM tools 
used by different stakeholders and provide an overview of these. They analyze their content 
following the TBL perspective, identifying similarities and/or differences in how these CSPM tools 
represent the three dimensions of CS. Finally, they propose a standardized list of sub-dimensions 
that should be considered when trying to measure CS. 
Cagno et al. (2019) develop three Industrial Sustainability Performance Measurement Systems 
(ISPMS) based on a literature review and characterized by a different number of indicators. These 
three ISPMS (full ISPM, intermediate ISPM, and a core ISPM, depending on the number of indicators 
included) constitute a scalable tool, aimed to maintain adequate coverage of the three pillars of 
TBL in different firm contexts, with different levels of resource availability, skills, and awareness of 
sustainability. 
Rahdari and Rostamy (2015) propose a system of Most Common Indicators (MCIs) to assess 
sustainability at the firm level, transcending the current literature and relying exclusively on the 
analysis of regulatory frameworks, management systems, guidelines, and rating systems. The 
proposed MCIs are grouped into a three-dimensional Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) 
framework. 
In addition to the analysis of indicator lists proposed in literature reviews, the main standards of 
CSR and corporate sustainability were also taken into consideration to define the items and 
constructs of the scale. Among the myriad of standards and guidelines, we decided to concentrate 
on the most common and general, which are widely used, issued by authoritative organizations, 
and not dedicated to specific industries or topics. Another issue was the applicability to small and 
medium enterprises, which represent most businesses in Europe. 
In the choice of standards, we considered the elements of the corporate social performance model, 
by including principle, process and performance/reporting standards. In particular, standards 
issued by the United Nations (UN) defining the general principles and aims of CSR and sustainable 
development were considered: the UN Global Compact and the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals. 
In terms of process standards and guidelines, ISO 26000 and SA 8000 were included as management 
systems on social responsibility and accountability applicable to all kind of organizations. B impact 
assessment and Ecovadis were also used to define the items: both rating systems present an overall 
assessment of sustainability based on different dimensions and are often applied by small and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
759 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
medium enterprises aspiring to become B Corp or included in the supply chain of multinational 
corporations. 
Finally, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards were accurately incorporated within the 
scale proposal, as they are the most relevant sustainability standards and present a large and 
detailed list of performance indicators. 
Methodology and preliminary analysis steps 
According to previous studies (Latif et al., 2018; Clauss, 2017; Spieth & Schneider, 2016; Lechuga 
Sancho et al., 2021) the process of scale creation and validation can be successfully completed in 
the following steps: Step 1: definition of the domain of constructs and dimensions; Step 2: item 
generation and categorization; Step 3: expert validation; Step 4: pre-test and pilot test; Step 5: data 
collection; and Step 6: cross-validation. 
As explained in the previous sections, the object tested in this study is CS implementation. More 
precisely, the proposed scale is aimed at measuring the level of implementation of sustainability 
practices; i.e., the implementation of specific company activities demonstrating the inclusion of all 
the relevant sustainability concerns in business operations (Lechuga Sancho et al., 2021). Following 
this premise, the first step of our analysis was focused on the definition of the relevant sustainability 
dimensions (Step 1). According to the existing literature and to the relevant standards, we could 
refer to several dimension definitions; for example, the traditional TBL dimensions (Elkington, 1998) 
i.e., economic, social, and environmental (Cagno et al., 2019); the ESG framework, which focuses 
on the environmental, social and governance dimensions (Rahdari & Rostamy, 2015, Antolín-Lòpez, 
2016); or to Carroll’s CSR pyramid (Carroll, 1991), which considers economic, legal, ethical, and 
discretionary dimensions, omitting the environmental aspect. However, we decided to blend the 
different approaches, in this way bridging the gaps in each individual approach: the ESG framework 
ignores the economic dimension; the TBL framework does not place governance in a distinct 
section; and the omission of the environmental dimension in CSR pyramid. By fusing these different 
perspectives we were able to give adequate consideration to both to the economic dimension, 
which is particularly significant for the small and medium firms to which we would like to address 
the survey; to the environmental and social issues, which are crucial in every current debate on firm 
sustainability; and to the governance issue, whose relevance is also confirmed by the standards, 
which in some cases (e.g., the B Impact Assessment, ISO 26000, and GRI standards), consider 
governance items separately and specifically, or consider governance as a section above the 
remaining ones. 
In combining these different perspectives, we defined four content dimensions: economic, social, 
environmental, and governance. Moreover, coherently with the 5P sustainable development goals 
approach, we chose to name the selected dimensions as: prosperity, people, planet, and 
governance. 
After having defined the four relevant dimensions, the analysis moved on to the identification of 
the constructs that are conceptual sub-categories that can be placed within the four dimensions 
(prosperity, people, planet, and governance), allowing us to define their content boundaries. 
To do this, after referring to the standards and the relevant literature, we understood that there is 
no agreement regarding the definition of the constructs, or in their placement within the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
760 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
sustainability dimensions. For example, should the anti-corruption construct be treated as a 
governance issue (as the BIA does) or as an economic issue (as the GRI does)? Should the 
sustainable supply chain construct be broken down in social and environmental items (as the GRI 
does) or should it be treated as a single construct due to the fact that it addresses just one 
stakeholder category (i.e., the suppliers)? Should the voluntary donation issue be considered an 
economic construct (due to its economic impact) or as a social construct (due to the stakeholder 
category addressed, for example the community)? 
Starting from these questions and given the heterogeneity that characterizes both the literature 
and the standards, the definition of each construct was developed through a bottom-up process 
that began with single items that defined, through a formative approach (Isa & Reast, 2014; Clauss, 
2017), the content boundaries of each construct and thus indirectly, the content of each dimension 
(Step 2). 
To define the relevant content items, the first step was the identification of relevant indicators. To 
do this we focus on standards and literature reviews that suggest lists of indicators (Rahdari & 
Rostamy, 2015, Cagno et al., 2019, Antolín-Lòpez, 2016). However, while the indicators normally 
refer to specific qualitative or quantitative pieces of information that are generally comparable and 
able to demonstrate change chronologically (Rahdari & Rostamy, 2015), we refer instead to 
indicators, not with the aim of replicating them, but rather, with the goal of identifying their 
relevant contents. In other words, we aim to capture all relevant items, avoiding any duplications 
that will make our survey less effective and more difficult to complete. In addition, since the main 
objective of our study is to measure the level of implementation of sustainability practices, we 
measure the item identified by the indicators using a five-point Likert scale, widely used in previous 
survey methodology by scholars on CS in small and medium enterprises (Roy & Therin, 2008; 
Gadenne et al., 2009; Zhu et al., 2019; Lechuga Sancho et al., 2021). We define the five-point scale 
as follows: 1 = has never considered, 2 = has considered, 3 = has considered and worked on plan 
development, 4 = has organized implementation, and 5 = has implemented successfully. 
Having identified and formally defined the items, we read them critically, with the aim of building 
relevant constructs in a formative way (Isa & Reast, 2014) and placing each of these within one of 
the four previously defined dimensions (prosperity, planet, people, and governance). In following 
this formative bottom-up process, we identify 32 constructs, grouped as follows: four for the 
prosperity dimension, six for the planet dimension, 15 the for people dimension, and seven for the 
governance dimension (Table 1). 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
761 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 1 
Dimensions and constructs 
Dimensions 
Constructs 
Prosperity 
PR1: Local economic development 
PR2: Indirect economic impacts 
PR3: Innovation 
PR4: Investment 
Planet 
PL1: Pollution prevention and reduction 
PL2: Sustainable use of resources  
PL3: Climate change mitigation and reduction 
PL4: Environmental protection, biodiversity, and habitat 
recovery 
PL5: Transport and mobility 
PL6: Environmental management systems 
People 
PE1: Work conditions and social protection 
PE2: Welfare 
PE3: Health and safety at work 
PE4: Training and professional development 
PE5: Diversity and gender equality 
PE6: Human rights at work 
PE7: Rights of outsourced workers 
PE8: Community Involvement 
PE9: Philanthropy and social investment 
PE10: Human rights 
PE11: Social and environmental assessment of suppliers 
PE12: Suppliers Involvement and partnership 
PE13: Product sustainability, health, and safety 
PE14: Traceability, labeling, and commercial communication 
PE15: Safeguard, warranties, data protection, and customer 
satisfaction 
Governance 
GOV1: Good, fair, and inclusive governance 
GOV2: Sustainability governance 
GOV3: Stakeholder engagement 
GOV4: Ethics and integrity 
GOV5: Fair operating practices 
GOV6: Transparency 
GOV7: Reporting 
The next steps will be: 
Step 3: Expert validation, aimed at assessing the questionnaire’s face validity (whether items appear 
to measure sustainability dimensions); content validity (whether all important aspects of the 
dimensions are covered) and clarity of the wording. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
762 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Step 4: Pre-testing, aimed at testing the questionnaire’s practicality (is it difficult to answer or not) 
and the responsiveness and ease of administration (questionnaire completion time) and piloting, 
test focused on the feasibility of the questionnaire (response rate, indicator collinearity, external 
validation). 
Step 5: Data collection via online administration of the questionnaire to about 800 small and 
medium enterprises located in the northeast of Italy. 
Step 6: The collected data will be randomly divided into two datasets for cross-validation. 
As previously stated, the study is still in the initial phase, with only two of the six steps concluded. 
However, despite this, we can highlight preliminary contributions, in particular the difference from 
previous work on the derivation of sustainability scales. In detail, the proposed scale is 
characterized by only partial convergence with the previous literature and standards, both for the 
dimensions and the constructs as well as the item definitions. The reason for these differences may 
be attributable to the lack of consensus on the definition of a universally accepted concept of 
sustainability dimensions, constructs, and items. 
Further, the work diverges from previous studies focused on sustainability indicators because it 
transforms the indicators collected from the literature and standards into items representing 
specific company practices. This is consistent with our aim to measure the level of implementation 
of sustainability practices, rather than the level of sustainability performance. 
References 
Alvarado-Herrera, A., Bigne, E., Aldas-Manzano, J., & Curras-Perez, R. (2017) A scale for measuring consumer 
perceptions of corporate social responsibility following the sustainable development 
paradigm. Journal of Business Ethics. 140(2), 243–262. 
Amini, M., & Bienstock, C. C. (2014) Corporate sustainability: An integrative definition and framework to 
evaluate corporate practice and guide academic research. Journal of Cleaner Production. 76, 12–19. 
Antolín-López, R., Delgado-Ceballos, J., & Montiel, I. (2016) Deconstructing corporate sustainability: A 
comparison of different stakeholder metrics. Journal of Cleaner Production. 136, 5–17. 
Asiaei, K., Bontis, N., Barani, O., & Jusoh, R. (2021) Corporate social responsibility and sustainability 
performance measurement systems: Implications for organizational performance. Journal of 
Management Control. 32 (1), 85–126. 
Cagno, E., Neri, A., Howard, M., Brenna, G., & Trianni, A. (2019) Industrial sustainability performance 
measurement systems: A novel framework. Journal of Cleaner Production. 230, 1354–1375. 
Cantele, S., & Zardini, A. (2018) Is sustainability a competitive advantage for small businesses? An empirical 
analysis of possible mediators in the sustainability–financial performance relationship. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 182, 166–176. 
Carroll, A. B. (1991) The pyramid of corporate social responsibility: Toward the moral management of 
organizational stakeholders. Business Horizons. 34 (4), 39–48. 
Clauss T. (2017) Measuring business model innovation: Conceptualization, scale development, and proof of 
performance. R&D Management. 47 (3) 382–403. 
De Olde, E. M., Bokkers, E. A., & de Boer, I. J. (2017) The choice of the sustainability assessment tool matters: 
differences in thematic scope and assessment results. Ecological Economics. 136, 77–85. 
Dyllick, T., & Hockerts, K. (2002) Beyond the business case for corporate sustainability. Business Strategy & 
The Environment. 11 (2), 130–141. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
763 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Dyllick, T., & Muff, K. (2016) Clarifying the meaning of sustainable business: Introducing a typology from 
business-as-usual to true business sustainability. Organization & Environment. 29 (2), 156–174. 
Elkington, J. (1998) Partnerships from cannibals with forks: The triple bottom line of 21st‐century 
business. Environmental Quality Management, 8 (1), 37–51. 
Freeman, R.E. (1984) Strategic Management: A Stakeholder Approach. Boston, Pitman Publishing Inc.  
Freeman, R.E. (1999) Divergent stakeholder theory. Academy of Management Review. 24 (2), 233–236. 
Gadenne, D., Kennedy, J., & Mckeiver, C. (2009) An empirical study of environmental awareness and practices 
in SMEs. Journal of Business Ethics. 84 (1), 45–63. 
Hojnik, J., Biloslavo, R., Cicero, L., & Cagnina, M. R. (2020) Sustainability indicators for the yachting industry: 
Empirical conceptualization. Journal of Cleaner Production. 249, 1–13. 
Isa S.M., & Reast J. (2014) Operationalising corporate social responsibility (CSR) and the development debate. 
Asian Academy of Management Journal (2019) 19 (1), 169-197. 
Lankoski, L. (2016) Alternative conceptions of sustainability in a business context. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 139, 847–857. 
Latif, F., Pérez, A., Alam, W., & Saqib, A. (2019) Development and validation of a multi-dimensional customer-
based scale to measure perceptions of corporate social responsibility (CSR). Social Responsibility 
Journal. 15 (4), 492–512. 
Lechuga Sancho M.P., Larràn Jorge M., & Herrera Madueno J., (2021) Design and validation of an instrument 
of measurement for corporate social responsibility practices in small and medium enterprises. Social 
Responsibility Journal. 17 (8), 1150–1174. 
López‐Arceiz, F. J., Del Río, C., & Bellostas, A. J. (2020) Sustainability performance indicators: Definition, 
interaction, and influence of contextual characteristics. Corporate Social Responsibility & 
Environmental Management. 27 (6), 2615–2630. 
Lozano, R., Carpenter, A., & Huisingh, D. (2015) A review of ‘theories of the firm’ and their contributions to 
corporate sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. 106, 430–444. 
Maignan, I., & Ferrell, O. C. (2000) Measuring corporate citizenship in two countries: The case of the United 
States and France. Journal of Business Ethics. 23 (3), 283–297. 
Rahdari, A. H., & Rostamy, A. A. A. (2015) Designing a general set of sustainability indicators at the corporate 
level. Journal of Cleaner Production. 108, 757–771. 
Roy, M.J., & Therin, F. (2008) Knowledge acquisition and environmental commitment in SMEs. Corporate 
Social Responsibility & Environmental Management. 15, 249–259. 
Silva, S., Nuzum, A. K., & Schaltegger, S. (2019) Stakeholder expectations on sustainability performance 
measurement and assessment. A systematic literature review. Journal of Cleaner Production, 217, 
204–215. 
Spieth, P., & Schneider, S. (2016) Business model innovativeness: Designing a formative measure for business 
model innovation. Journal of Business Economics, 86 (6), 671–696. 
Turker, D. (2009) Measuring corporate social responsibility: A scale development study. Journal of Business 
Ethics. 85 (4), 411–427. 
Wood, D. J. (2010) Measuring corporate social performance: A review. International Journal of Management 
Reviews. 12 (1), 50–84. 
Wong, A. K. F., Kim, S., Lee, S., & Elliot, S. (2021) An application of Delphi method and analytic hierarchy 
process in understanding hotel corporate social responsibility performance scale. Journal of 
Sustainable Tourism. 29 (7), 1153–1179. 
Zhu Q., Zou F, & Zhang P. (2018) The role of innovation for performance improvement through corporate 
social responsibility practices among small and medium-sized suppliers in China. Corporate Social 
Responsibility & Environmental Management. 26, 341–350. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
764 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Measuring shared value through 
sustainable business model 
innovation: the Flourishing 
perspective applied to Enel industrial 
plants  
 
Gianluca Gionfriddo1,* Andrea Piccaluga1, Tiberio Daddi1 
1Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna, Institute of Management and 
Department EMbeDS 
*gianluca.gionfriddo@santannapisa.it 
Abstract 
Although the concept of shared value had received relevant attention, only a few studies have 
empirically investigated how companies successfully manage and measure the creation of shared 
value through sustainable business model innovation (BMI). Drawing upon the Flourishing Business 
Canvas (FBC), our aim is to investigate how Enel – one of the world’s largest companies in the 
renewable energy sector – implements and monitors sustainable practices of shared value creation 
in the construction, operating and repurposing phases of three industrial sites worldwide, namely 
the (1) Bungala solar plant in Australia, the (2) the Aurora solar plant in Minnesota (U.S.) and (3) 
the Teurel solar and wind plant in Spain. 
We collected data on the Bungala industrial plant concerning the measurement process of shared 
value creation in the period between December 2019 and February 2022, through semi-structured 
interviews with plant managers and with global sustainable managers. We also triangulated these 
data with Enel’s internal documents about the performance measurement of sustainable practices 
implemented, such as practices catalogues, feasibility maps and quantitative KPIs. We planned to 
collect similar data for Aurora and Teurel industrial sites. 
Our preliminary findings on Bungala industrial site suggest that Enel strategically considered (1) the 
three contextual systems of Environment, Society and Economy and (2) the multi-stakeholder 
perspective of People described by the FBC to manage and monitor several sustainable practices 
that created shared value for internal and external stakeholders, thus enhancing its 
competitiveness while simultaneously advancing the economic and social conditions of the 
communities where it operates. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
765 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Keywords  
Business Model Innovation; Sustainable Development; Shared Value; Flourishing Business Canvas. 
Theoretical Background 
Shared Value: ten years of scholarly debate 
Shared value has been defined by Porter and Kramer (2011) as ‘policies and operating practices 
that enhance the competitiveness of a company while simultaneously advancing the economic and 
social conditions in the communities in which it operates’ (p.6). By recognizing the connection 
between competitive advantage and social issues, companies are conceived as capable to 
simultaneously increase their profitability and solve social problems (Porter & Kramer, 2006), 
offering a strategical solution to move beyond the trade-off between social and economic goals 
caused by conflicting institutional logics (Battilana & Dorado, 2010; Besharov & Smith, 2014).  
More specifically, Porter and Kramer (2011) speculate that shared valued can be created by (1) 
reconceiving products and markets, which implies to serving the increasing social needs of 
customers such as environmentally friendly products or healthier food, (2) by redefining 
productivity in the value chain in a way that negative externalities and internal costs on firms 
originated by inefficient value chains are minimized and (3) by enabling local cluster development 
so that companies productivity is boosted and also greater local development is achieved. 
Although the concept of shared value has proved extremely appealing to some of the largest 
corporations (Dembek, Singh & Bhakoo, 2016, p.244), it also attracted a number of critiques by 
management scholars (Crane et al., 2014; de los Reyes Jr, Scholz & Smith, 2017). For instance, Crane 
et al. (2014) claim that it narrowly focuses on win-win opportunities and it “does not provide 
guidance for the many situations where social and economic outcomes will not be aligned for all 
stakeholders” (p. 136). The failure to recognize social and economic tensions through an 
oversimplification of ethical and moral dilemmas in business may eventually lead companies to 
commit exclusively on the limited number of win-win opportunities (de los Reyes Jr, Scholz & Smith, 
2017), which are not sufficient to solve our broader societal problems. Moreover, it can also 
originate decoupled communication strategies that do not reflect the actual corporate social 
responsibility commitment but only focus on shared value creation practices (Wickert, Scherer & 
Spence, 2016).  
Despite the several concerns on the limited generalizability of the concept of shared value, Porter 
and Kramer (2011) did not portray it as the panacea of capitalism dysfunctionalities, stating that 
“not all societal problems can be solved through shared value solutions” (p. 17). In most of the 
business situations and contexts, companies do not face win-win opportunities (Dembek, Singh & 
Bhakoo, 2016), but cope with divergent stakeholder interests and competing logics that must be 
addressed with solutions such as selective coupling (Pache & Santos, 2013) or differentiation 
strategies (Smith, Gonin, & Besharov, 2013). 
In their effort to moving past the stand-off between Porter and Kramer (2011) and Crane et al. 
(2014), de los Reyes Jr, Scholz & Smith (2017) introduced the norm-taking and norm-making ethical 
frameworks to help managers to address both the win-lose cases where the company profits but 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
766 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
society suffers and the lose-win cases where society gains but at significant cost to the company. 
However, to leverage such ethical frameworks, managers should be able to evaluate the potential 
contribution of their companies to society, while the existing literature has not yet addressed ‘the 
question of how to quantify shared value to help make strategic choices’ (p. 161). In line with what 
described above, Dembek, Singh & Bhakoo (2016) also highlighted in their literature review that 
‘the current efforts to measure shared value do not appear to offer a solution’ and thus ‘a question 
to be addressed by future research is that of how shared value should be measured’ (p.245).  
In our study, we aim at exploring if specific forms of sustainable business model innovation (BMI) 
can provide effective measurement tools for companies to evaluate the creation of shared value. 
In particular, we investigate how companies can leverage innovative artifacts of business models to 
accurately describe their economic, societal and environmental performance. 
Business Model Innovation to evaluate Shared Value 
One of the most acknowledged definitions of business model has been given by Amit and Zott 
(2001) who define it as ‘the content, structure, and governance of transactions designed so as to 
create value through the exploitation of business opportunities’ (p. 511). In order to underline the 
concept of value proposition, Teece (2010) also explained that “a business model articulates the 
logic, the data and other evidence that support a value proposition for the customer, and a viable 
structure of revenues and costs for the enterprise delivering that value” (p. 179). 
Zott, Amit & Massa (2011) explain how value creation mechanisms can be object of innovation 
aimed at improving companies’ performance. By strategically reconfiguring the interrelated 
activities of value creation, delivery and capture, BMI can have a direct effect on company 
performance (Zott & Amit, 2007, 2008). More specifically, the sustainability performance of 
companies has been demonstrated to be positively affected by specific forms of BMI (Evans et al., 
2017; Stubbs & Cocklin, 2008). 
Various scholars discussed how BMI can serve to the creation of shared value and improve the 
sustainability performance of companies (Florin & Schmidt, 2011; Mehera & Ordonez‐Ponce, 2021; 
Michelini & Fiorentino, 2012). Although previous studies focused on the initiatives implemented to 
jointly create economic and social value, on the BMI drivers and leverages to create shared value, 
to the best of our knowledge, management literature has not yet investigated how BMI can be key 
to assess and measure the sustainability performance of companies. 
Graphical, textual and schematical representations of business models are widely used to 
effectively evaluate ‘all key classes of participants (partners, customers, suppliers) and value 
exchanges between them (tangible and intangible benefits and knowledge)’ (Zott, Amit & Massa, 
2011, p. 1026). For instance, the nine business model building blocks designed by Osterwalder and 
Pigneur (2010) are extremely diffused among practitioners who want to describe the rationale of 
how an organization creates, delivers and captures value financially. 
However, in the case of shared value, the BMI literature has not yet provided new tools to measure 
the amount of shared value created and the resulting sustainability performance achieved. Thus, 
our study aims to use distinctive elements of the flourishing framework on strongly sustainable 
business models designed by Upward & Jones (2016) to empirically investigate how companies can 
evaluate, measure and represent the creation of shared value. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
767 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Flourishing Business Canvas 
 
Upward & Jones (2016) identified a possibility for companies to flourish by proposing an ontology 
of business models that goes on a continuum from profit-normative to strongly sustainable 
business model. The flourishing goal consists of doing good to do well and it pays attention to 
environmental regeneration and social benefits in addition to financial performance (Hoveskog et 
al., 2018).  
In case of companies’ flourishing goal, ‘BMI requires making strategic choices that recognize the 
importance of external factors such as the environment, society, the economy (markets), a range 
of stakeholders (including customers), and the value propositions that meet those stakeholders’ 
needs’ (Hoveskog et al., 2018, p. 4385). 
Upward and Jones (2016) also designed a visual practitioner tool called Flourishing Business Canvas 
(FBC), which consists of (i) the three contextual systems of Environment, Society and the Economy; 
(ii) the four perspectives of Process, Value, People and Outcomes adopted by Kaplan and Norton 
(1996); and (iii) sixteen question blocks aimed at guiding practitioners towards the flourishing goal 
through BMI. 
We believe that the FBC is a suitable tool to measure and represent the shared value created by 
companies as it includes the needs of all stakeholders and the value created for each of them, which 
is the strategic logic of shared value creation. Moreover, the three contextual systems of FBC take 
into account potential negative externalities of a company on Environment and Society, unmasking 
possible decoupling strategies hidden behind an alleged logic of shared value creation. 
Therefore, in our research we use the FBC to explore how Enel, Italian energy company operating 
in the renewable sector , pursued a flourishing goal to create shared value in its industrial plants. 
In particular, we use some specific elements of the FBC to measure and represent the shared value 
created in those plants. 
Research Methodology 
Case selection 
 
Enel is a multinational energy company that operates globally in more than 30 countries in 5 
continents, with a net installed capacity of around 90 GW, of which 53 GW are from renewable 
energy, resulting the world’s largest player in renewables by installed capacity. Enel adopted the 
so-called Open Power innovation approach with the aim of contributing to the sustainable energy 
transition thanks to open collaboration with start-ups, small, medium and large companies, 
universities, experts, and investors (Chesbrough, 2016). By leveraging a global ecosystem of open 
innovation, Enel crowdsources ideas and technologies coming from external actors. For instance, 
Enel created more than 20 Innovation Hubs around the world and manages the Open Innovability 
platform to launch on-line challenges that can be solved by individuals or organizations located 
anywhere. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
768 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Enel is a suitable case of company that successfully created shared value. Since 2014, Enel 
contributed to solve the social need of climate change by heavily investing in renewable power, 
passing from 119,51 millions of equivalent tones of direct GHG emissions in 2015 to 69,8 millions 
of equivalent tones of direct GHG emissions in 2019. However, Enel also increases its revenues in 
the same period, passing from 75,66 millions of euros in 2015 to 80,33 millions of euros in 2015. 
Enel is a win-win case where an increase of profitability and the contribution to solve social 
problems are jointly achieved. 
We therefore selected Enel as case study to analyze how FBC can be used to measure the shared 
value created. More specifically, Enel adhered to the Shared Value Initiative27, which is a platform 
for companies seeking to solve societal challenges through market solutions. Enel also applies a 
model of creating shared value in its industrial plants (Fig.1), which consists in six activities 
implemented at different stages of the plant lifecycle. 28  
 
Figure 1 – The Creating Shared Value model of ENEL 
Enel divides the life cycle of its industrial plants into 3 phases in which there is a differentiation of 
the shared value creation process: (1) the construction phase, (2) the operation phase and (3) the 
decommissioning or repurposing phase. For each phase, Enel has defined a catalogue of sustainable 
practices, which have been collected over time, that can be applied to the industrial plant in order 
to create shared value. In addition, Enel monitors its sustainability performance with specific KPIs, 
keeping also track of the stakeholders to whom the shared value is delivered. 
Data collection  
Our research will analyze three industrial plants managed by ENEL where the creating shared value 
model has been applied. The industrial plants are (1) the Bungala solar plant in Australia, (2) the 
Aurora solar plant in Minnesota (U.S.) and (3) the Teurel solar and wind plant in Spain. The data 
collection to measure the shared value created is detailed in Table 1. In particular, we already had 
3 interviews with the two plant managers of Bungala solar plant and 7 interviews with global 
 
27 https://www.sharedvalue.org/  
28 https://www.enel.cl/en/sustainability/creating-shared-value/creating-shared-value.html  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
769 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
sustainable managers of ENEL. The interviews with the plant managers of Aurora and Teurel 
industrial sites are planned respectively for June and July 2022. We also had a two-day meeting 
with the employees of the shared value creation department in Rome and we had access to ENEL's 
internal documents concerning shared value creation in the period between January 2020 and 
January 2022. In particular, these documents are (1) the catalogues of the sustainable practices of 
the industrial plants (one for the construction phase and one for the operational phase); (2) the 
feasibility maps of the sustainability practices for the three analysed plants; (3) the KPIs concerning 
the sustainability performance of the plants. 
 
Industrial site 
Direct interviews 
Internal documents 
General interviews, documents or 
meetings 
Bungala solar 
plant 
3 interviews with the 
two plant managers (1 
hour each interview) 
- 
Feasability map of sustainable 
practices;  
- 
KPIs on sustainability 
performance of  the plant 
- 
7 interviews with global 
sustainable managers of ENEL 
- 
Catalogue of sustainable 
practices for the construction 
phase 
- 
Catalogue of sustainable 
practices for the operating 
phase 
- 
Two day meeting on the 19th 
and 29th of December 2019  
Aurora solar 
plant 
2 interviews scheduled 
for June 2022 
- 
Feasability map of sustainable 
practices;  
- 
KPIs on sustainability 
performance of  the plant 
Teurel solar and 
wind plant 
2 interviews scheduled 
for July 2022 
- 
Feasability map of sustainable 
practices;  
- 
KPIs on sustainability 
performance of  the plant 
Table 1 – Data collection 
Data analysis 
We used specific business model elements of the FBC to categorize and a analyze the data collected 
on Bungala industrial site. Through an active categorization process, we used (1) the three 
contextual systems of Environment, Society and Economy and (2) the multi-stakeholder perspective 
of People described by the FBC to measure the shared value created by the sustainable practices 
implemented by ENEL. Our analysis is limited to the industrial plant of Bungala, as we still have to 
collect all the data for the other two industrial plants. 
Results and Discussion 
The following tables contain the results of the shared value created through the implementation of 
sustainable practices in Bungala industrial plant, divided for the construction phase (Table 2) and 
operational phase (Table 3). 
Practice 
Contextual 
system 
(FBC) 
Beneficiary 
stakeholder (FBC) 
Data on shared value creation 
(societal value) 
Employment of skilled aboriginal 
people in the SCS (deal with 
contractor B.A.C.) 
Social 
Aboriginal local 
people 
30% of skilled aboriginal people 
employed in the SCS → 
1500 site employees (Aborigenal 
people)  
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
770 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Employment aboriginal people not 
skilled with TRAINING and 
MENTORING service 
Social 
Aboriginal local 
people 
70 aboriginal people trained, mentored 
and employed in the SCS 
 
Heritage training by member of 
Nukunu community on the culture 
and history of Aboriginals 
Social 
Aboriginal local 
people 
1400 workers of SCS received training 
→ 2 times per week in 1 month 
Students of Porto Augusta’s schools 
visiting the plant and received 
training 
Social 
Students of local 
schools 
500 students visiting Bungala I and 
received info on history and culture 
Stem Program (for free) for 
aboriginal students in partnership 
with Pollyfarmer foundation 
Social 
Aboriginal students 
of local schools 
15 students received traning and 
competences on solar plants for a total 
value of the program equal to $50 k 
even (even if provided for free) 
Reactivation of the railway to 
transport equipment (no water for 
dust, less CO2, less diesel) 
Environment 
Natural 
environment 
190 t di greenhouses emissions (CO2) 
saved 
68000 L Diesel saved 
40% of water saved 
Waste recycle program:  
Environment 
Natural 
environment 
40% of Non Hazardous waste was 
Recycled 
30% Reused soil 
0% donated materials 
 
Table 1 – Shared value created in the construction phase of Bungala  
 
 
Sustainable Practice 
Contextual 
system (FBC) 
Beneficiary 
stakeholder 
(FBC) 
Data on shared value creation 
(societal value) 
Permanent local employment 
program: aboriginal people 
involved in the operational phase 
Social 
Aboriginal local 
people 
4 aboriginal people employed on site by 
contractor that have been trained  
Sustainable tourism through a 
partnership with local touristic 
operator  
Social 
Tourist agency and 
students 
Approximately 500 students visiting the 
Bungala sustainable plant 
Table 2 – Shared value created in the operational phase of Bungala  
The preliminary results show how the environmental, social and economic data on sustainability 
performance of ENEL's industrial sites can be effectively categorized according to elements of the FBC, 
to highlight how shared value has been created within each contextual system. Moreover, it is possible 
to highlight the beneficiary stakeholders to whom value is delivered by each individual practice, stressing 
the importance of a multi-stakeholder perspective. The quantitative data concerning the shared value 
created by each practice provide an accurate performance measurement, highlighting the centrality of 
extra-financial indicators and dimensions when accounting for social and environmental issues.  
Enel uses a shared value creation model that enables the planification of sustainability practices and the 
measurement of their benefits for the local communities and stakeholders with whom it works. Through 
BMI, using the FBC, it is also possible to measure the shared value created. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
771 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
In conclusion, these preliminary data suggest that it is possible to track the win-win opportunities 
through BMI and that there are already applicable business models that represent and measure the 
shared value created. 
Future development of this research project will mainly focus on the collection and analyses of 
quantitative and qualitative data for the Aurora and Teurel industrial sites, in order to provide a 
complete understanding on how Enel manage the creation of shared value in the construction, operating 
and repurposing phases. 
 
References  
Amit, R., & Zott, C. (2001). Value creation in e‐business. Strategic management journal, 22(6‐7), 493-520. 
Battilana, J., & Dorado, S. (2010). Building sustainable hybrid organizations: The case of commercial 
microfinance organizations. Academy of management Journal, 53(6), 1419-1440. 
Besharov, M. L., & Smith, W. K. (2014). Multiple institutional logics in organizations: Explaining their varied 
nature and implications. Academy of management review, 39(3), 364-381. 
Chesbrough, H. (2016). Innovation@ ENEL: From monopoly power to open power. The Berkeley-Haas Case 
Series. University of California, Berkeley. Haas School of Business. 
Crane, A., Palazzo, G., Spence, L. J., & Matten, D. (2014). Contesting the value of “creating shared value”. 
California management review, 56(2), 130-153. 
Dembek, K., Singh, P., & Bhakoo, V. (2016). Literature review of shared value: a theoretical concept or a 
management buzzword?. Journal of Business Ethics, 137(2), 231-267. 
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Van Fossen, K., Yang, M., Silva, E. A., & Barlow, C. Y. (2017). Business 
model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for creation of sustainable 
business models. Business Strategy and the Environment, 26(5), 597-608. 
Florin, J., & Schmidt, E. (2011). Creating shared value in the hybrid venture arena: A business model 
innovation perspective. Journal of social entrepreneurship, 2(2), 165-197. 
Hoveskog, M., Halila, F., Mattsson, M., Upward, A., & Karlsson, N. (2018). Education for Sustainable 
Development: Business modelling for flourishing. Journal of Cleaner Production, 172, 4383-4396. 
Mehera, A., & Ordonez‐Ponce, E. (2021). Social and economic value creation by Bendigo Bank and Stockland 
Property Group: Application of Shared Value Business Model. Business and Society Review, 126(1), 
69-99. 
Michelini, L., & Fiorentino, D. (2012). New business models for creating shared value. Social Responsibility 
Journal. 
Osterwalder, A., & Pigneur, Y. (2010). Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game changers, 
and challengers (Vol. 1). John Wiley & Sons. 
Pache, A. C., & Santos, F. (2013). Inside the hybrid organization: Selective coupling as a response to competing 
institutional logics. Academy of management journal, 56(4), 972-1001. 
Porter, M. E., & Kramer, M. R. (2006). The link between competitive advantage and corporate social 
responsibility. Harvard business review, 84(12), 78-92. 
Porter, M. E., & Kramer, M. R. (2011). Creating Shared Value. Harvard Business Review, 11, 30.  
de los Reyes Jr, G., Scholz, M., & Smith, N. C. (2017). Beyond the “Win-Win” creating shared value requires 
ethical frameworks. California Management Review, 59(2), 142-167. 
Smith, W. K., Gonin, M., & Besharov, M. L. (2013). Managing social-business tensions: A review and research 
agenda for social enterprise. Business Ethics Quarterly, 23(3), 407-442. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
772 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”. Organization & 
environment, 21(2), 103-127. 
Teece, D. J. (2010). Business models, business strategy and innovation. Long range planning, 43(2-3), 172-
194. 
Upward, A., & Jones, P. (2016). An ontology for strongly sustainable business models: Defining an enterprise 
framework compatible with natural and social science. Organization & Environment, 29(1), 97-123. 
Wickert, C., Scherer, A. G., & Spence, L. J. (2016). Walking and talking corporate social responsibility: 
Implications of firm size and organizational cost. Journal of Management Studies, 53(7), 1169-1196. 
Zott, C., & Amit, R. (2007). Business model design and the performance of entrepreneurial firms. Organization 
science, 18(2), 181-199. 
Zott, C., & Amit, R. (2008). The fit between product market strategy and business model: Implications for firm 
performance. Strategic management journal, 29(1), 1-26. 
Zott, C., Amit, R., & Massa, L. (2011). The business model: recent developments and future research. Journal 
of management, 37(4), 1019-1042. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
773 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
How to use management control 
systems to embed sustainability in 
the corporate culture of your 
business model? 
 
Egbert Willekes1*, Koos Wagensveld2, Jan Jonker3 
1The Hague University of Applied Sciences / Radboud University 
Nijmegen, 2HAN University of Applied Sciences / Radboud University 
Nijmegen, 3Radboud University Nijmegen / Nijmegen School of 
Management  
*e.j.willekes@hhs.nl  
 
Keywords 
sustainability, management control systems, corporate culture 
Introduction 
Both sustainability and Management Control Systems (MCS) are topics that have been extensively 
discussed in the literature for quite some time. However, MCS focusing on sustainability are often 
identified as an area for further research opportunities. We have found some conceptual studies 
regarding the design of MCS aimed at sustainability (Arjaliès, Mundy, 2013, Lueg, Radlach, 2016, 
Maas, Schaltegger & Crutzen, 2016), and several empirical studies on this topic (Ligonie, 2021, 
Ditillo, Lisi, 2016, Narayanan, Boyce, 2019, Arjaliès, Mundy, 2013). However, numerous studies 
confirm the need for further empirical research in this field (Gond et al., 2012, Hartmann, Perego & 
Young, 2013, De Villiers, Venter & Hsiao, 2016, Ditillo, Lisi, 2016, Sundin, Brown, 2017, Latan et al., 
2018, Ligonie, 2021, Joshi, Li, 2016) in a systematic literature review, Traxler et al. (2020) reveal that 
current literature lacks empirical, theory-guided, and critical analyses. According to our knowledge, 
our research is the only empirical study comparing and analyzing the MCS from different 
perspectives of diverse companies that focus on sustainability.  
This need for further empirical research on the topic of MCS and sustainability led us to pose the 
following research question: 
How are MCS focusing on the creation of sustainable value designed in practice? 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
774 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Extant accounting and control literature commonly views management controls as a means to 
direct an organization towards strategic and operational goals (Ouchi, 1977, Gond et al., 2012, 
Simons, 1995, Tucker, Thorne & Gurd, 2009, Langfield-Smith, 1997, Ferreira, Otley, 2009). This 
traditional view defines MCS through its cybernetic and processual nature. In our study, we define 
MCS more holistically as “systems, rules, practices, values, and other activities management put in 
place to direct employee behavior” (Malmi, Brown, 2008, p. 290).  
Our findings show that sustainability is a crucial element in the organization's culture of a 
sustainable business model and that MCS entail essential tools to embed sustainability in the 
organization's culture. A business model can be defined as “a description of how value creation 
between parties or partners— based on certain principles—is organized, at a particular moment, in 
a specific context, and given available resources” (Jonker, Faber, 2021, p. 20), while a sustainable 
business model is aiming at sustainable value creation. Sustainable value creation is a concept open 
to many interpretations and is often seen as a clichéd term. Based on our findings, we have defined 
sustainable value creation as finding a balance between creating ecological-, social- and economic 
value (Jonker, Faber, 2019), referring to the Triple Bottom Line approach that comprises these three 
pillars of sustainability (Carroll, 1979, Elkington, 1994). 
Methods 
We engaged twenty companies based on purposive sampling to enable this exploratory qualitative 
analysis. The most crucial criterion for selecting these companies was an active focus on creating 
sustainable value so that the objects to be investigated fall within the scope of this research. In 
order to determine whether a company is expected to be sensitive to MCS aiming for multiple value 
creation, at least two of the criteria below must be met:  
• 
The presence of a sustainability manager  
• 
The integrated report, which shows that sustainability plays a vital role in the company's 
strategy 
• 
High ranking on Sustainability indices (e.g., the Dow Jones Sustainability Index) 
• 
Winning sustainability prizes/sustainability awards.  
However, even if a company meets all the four criteria, it is not guaranteed that this company 
focuses on multiple value creation. Greenwashing is a common practice regarding sustainability  
(Boiral, 2013). Therefore, in addition to the criteria mentioned above, preliminary exploratory 
discussions with the (potential) interviewees were held to determine the intentions and actual 
focus regarding sustainability. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
775 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The anonymized sample selection is presented in table 1: 
Company 
Sector 
Revenue (€) 
Employees 
Shareholder 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
Food 
100 mln – 1 bln 
100 – 1k 
Private Owned 
2 
Manufacturing 
1 bln – 10 bln 
10k – 100k 
Listed 
3 
Agriculture 
1 bln – 10 bln 
10k – 100k 
Private Owned 
4 
Food 
10 mln – 100 mln 
100 – 1k 
Private Owned 
5 
Agriculture 
10 bln – 100 bln 
10k – 100k 
Private Owned 
6 
Manufacturing 
1 bln – 10 bln 
1k-10k 
Listed 
7 
Logistics 
1 bln – 10 bln 
10k – 100k 
State Owned 
8 
Manufacturing 
1 bln – 10 bln 
10k – 100k 
Listed 
9 
Food 
100 mln – 1 bln 
100 – 1k 
Listed 
10 
Agriculture 
100 mln – 1 bln 
1k-10k 
Private Owned 
11 
Manufacturing 
100 mln – 1 bln 
1k-10k 
Private Owned 
12 
Manufacturing 
1 bln – 10 bln 
1k-10k 
State Owned 
13 
Real Estate 
100 mln – 1 bln 
100 – 1k 
Listed 
14 
Service 
1 bln – 10 bln 
10k – 100k 
Listed 
15 
Financial Services 
1 bln – 10 bln 
10k – 100k 
Cooperative 
16 
Service 
1 bln – 10 bln 
1k-10k 
Association 
17 
Financial Services 
1 bln – 10 bln 
10k – 100k 
Listed 
18 
Financial Services 
1 bln – 10 bln 
1k-10k 
Listed 
19 
Manufacturing 
1 mln – 10 mln 
1-10 
Private Owned 
20 
Manufacturing 
10 mln – 100 mln 
100 – 1k 
Private Owned 
Table 1: Characteristics of the 20 selected companies. 
The research design involved data triangulation (Modell, 2005) through reliance on a multiplicity of 
informants and data sources (Flick, 2002, Patton, 2002). Data were collected using various 
evidential sources: public business reports, semi-structured interviews, direct observation during 
site visits, and internal documents of the companies. In total, we conducted 53 interviews across 
the twenty selected organizations. 
Data were analyzed through a theory-building process using the open, axial, and selective coding 
stages of Grounded Theory (GT) (Strauss and Corbin, 1990).  
Theory 
Due to our GT approach, we did not choose a particular control system but divided the control 
elements into cultural and non-cultural controls well reflected by social and technical controls 
(Gerdin, 2020). 
Social controls typically imply that managers seek to more indirectly influence subordinates' 
behavior through shaping their mindset in the hope that they will internalize the values and beliefs 
of the organization and act accordingly (Abernethy, Dekker & Schulz, 2015, Simons, 1995). Examples 
of social controls include the use of vision, mission, and strategy statements (Simons, 1995, 
Merchant, Van der Stede, 2017), employee socialization (Abernethy, Brownell, 1997, Bedford, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
776 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Malmi, 2015) and employee selection processes  (Ouchi, 1979, Abernethy, Dekker & Schulz, 2015, 
Campbell, 2012, Merchant, Van der Stede, 2017).  
In contrast, technical control seeks to influence employee behavior directly. As put by Kärreman 
and Alvesson  (2004, p. 152), for example, such MCS work primarily "with plans, arrangements, and 
systems focusing on behavior and/or measurable outputs." Hence, technical types of MCS have 
primarily been associated with the use of behavior controls such as rules and routines  (Gerdin, 
2005, Kreutzer et al., 2016, Ouchi, 1979), and output controls such as the use of PMSs, budgets, and 
employee incentive systems  (see e.g. Grabner, 2014, Simons, 1995, Merchant, Van der Stede, 
2017). 
Also, the interdependencies of control elements (Grabner, Moers, 2013) are relevant in our 
analysis. However, we do not assume any ex-ante interdependencies between the control 
elements. Instead, we propose to view the MC package of a given organization as containing the 
complete set of MC practices regarding sustainability, thus mirroring the organization’s control 
environment in this respect. Therefore, we will search for interdependencies between the 
determined control elements in our analysis. The two types of interdependencies between MC 
practices, i.e., complements and substitutes, are defined by Grabner & Moers  (2013) as follows: 
MC practices are complements when the benefits of one MC practice increase with the use of 
(some) other MC practice (and vice versa).  
MC practices are substitutes when the benefits of one MC practice decrease with the use of (some) 
other MC practice (and vice versa).  
Findings 
Figure 1 represents our empirical findings regarding MCS focusing on sustainable value creation. 
These values are not limited to the organization itself, but concern the impact of the organization's 
products over the whole value chain. The value creation of the three P’s over the whole value chain 
is incorporated into the organization's strategy. 
In our findings, a distinction became apparent between companies established for a sustainable 
purpose, further called Type A, and companies transitioning towards a sustainable business model, 
further called Type B. For both types of companies, support from the top (the CEO in particular) is 
considered crucial for successfully implementing a sustainable business model. However, we 
recognized different patterns regarding embedding sustainability in the cultures of Type A and Type 
B organizations and the interdependencies of social and technical controls in this respect. Social 
controls play an essential role for Type A and Type B organizations, be it with different accents. For 
Type A, sustainable values are to a significant part internalized in the organization, which means 
that Type A can rely on these values in their control structure. For Type B, sustainable values are 
internalized in the organization to a lesser extent, and social controls are essential tools to 
internalize these values in a significant part of the organization.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
777 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
*S = Social and technical controls are Substitutes 
**C = Social and technical controls are Complements 
Figure 1: Overview of MCS for Type A and Type B companies.  
For Type A companies, social and technical control function as substitutes. Here, MCS mainly focus 
on social controls. These MCS rely on shared sustainable values as a control mechanism, 
substituting technical controls. For Type B companies, social and technical controls are 
complementary to each other. Social controls focus on embedding a sustainable culture in the 
organization and are supported by technical controls to direct employees’ behavior in a sustainable 
direction and enhance the process of embedding sustainability in the culture. These MCS focus on 
embedding shared sustainable value in the organization and cannot yet rely on shared values as the 
leading social control mechanism without the support of technical controls as complements to 
social controls. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
778 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 2a: Type A Culture and control 
 
Figure 2b: Type B Culture and control 
Discussion  and conclusions 
Our study indicates that to facilitate the transition to a sustainable business model, a strong focus 
of MCS on embedding a sustainable culture in the organization is crucial. Although this conclusion 
is not congruent with current literature, our findings do not seem to contradict most studies and 
confirm several current literature findings. Our analysis shows that social and technical controls 
play a crucial role in this process, in line with Ditillo and Lisi (2016) and illustrates that social controls 
increase the effectiveness of technical controls confirming several studies (Durden, 2008, Norris, 
O'Dwyer, 2004, Tregidga, Milne & Kearins, 2014). Our analysis also points out that social controls 
alone are insufficient and need to be supported by technical controls, aligning with Laguir et al. 
(2019) and Narayanan and Boyce (2019). However, our main argument, that MCS focus on 
embedding a sustainable culture in the organization using both social and technical controls, is not 
commonly found in the literature. We found significant attention in the literature for diagnostic 
controls and sustainability (Guenther, Endrikat & Guenther, 2016). The main focus of most studies 
is on one specific control element (for example, see Guenther et al. (2016)) or on an existing control 
framework (Narayanan, Boyce, 2019, Laguir, Laguir & Tchemeni, 2019). However, this limits their 
conclusions to the boundaries of the particular control element or framework. These limits explain 
Traxler et al.’s (2020) findings of their systematic literature review on the topic that the existing 
literature does not go beyond an instrumental and functionalistic perspective instead of our more 
holistic approach. We argue that our GT approach, combined with a wide variety of sustainable 
companies in our selection being interviewed from different angles, allows this study to reveal our 
main argument.  
This study contributes to the literature in several ways. In general terms, it provides in-depth and 
nuanced insights into the way companies design MCS focusing on multiple value creation, 
answering a call for more management accounting research in this area (De Villiers et al., 2016; 
Ditillo and Lisi, 2016; Gond et al., 2012; Hartmann et al., 2013; Joshi and Li, 2016; Latan et al., 2018; 
Ligonie, 2021; Sundin and Brown, 2017). In particular, it shows that MCS focusing on corporate 
sustainability are designed to embed sustainability in the corporate culture and explains how these 
MCS are enacted in practice and understood in empirical settings regarding this process. It also 
extends the theoretical conceptualization of control elements focusing on culture (Merchant and 
Van der Stede, 2017; Ouchi, 1979; Simons, 1995). It clarifies the distinction between cultural 
control, which relies on shared sustainable values (Ouchi, 1979) and cultural control, which intends 
to internalize shared sustainable values (Merchant and Van der Stede, 2017; Simons, 1995). The 
general understanding in literature is that only social controls focus on culture as a control element 
(Merchant and Van der Stede, 2017; Simons, 1995). However, our study shows that technical 
controls can also contribute to the process of internalizing shared sustainable values. Due to our GT 
approach resulting in a more holistic approach, our study shows the interactions between various 
relevant control elements rather than focusing on an instrumental and functionalistic perspective 
found in the existing body of literature (Traxler et al., 2020). With this approach, our research also 
contributes to the current discussion in the literature about interdependencies between controls 
(e.g. Abernethy et al., 2015; Gerdin et al., 2019; Kreutzer et al., 2016), providing evidence that social 
and technical controls can be built on a substitution logic (Chenhall, 2003; Govindarajan, 1984; 
Ouchi, 1977; Ouchi, 1979) but also act as complements (Bedford et al., 2016; De Jong et al., 2014), 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
779 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
depending on certain contextual conditions. We identified two types of companies in this respect. 
Type A companies that are founded for a sustainable purpose and companies that are in a transition 
process towards sustainability, called Type B companies. For Type A companies, social and technical 
control function as substitutes. Here, MCS mainly focus on social controls, with significant elements 
of clan control (Ouchi, 1979; Schein, 2010). These MCS rely on shared sustainable values as a control 
mechanism, substituting technical controls. For Type B companies, social and technical controls are 
complementary to each other. Social controls focus on embedding a sustainable culture in the 
organization and are supported by technical controls to direct employees’ behavior in a sustainable 
direction and enhance the process of embedding sustainability in the culture. These MCS focus on 
embedding shared sustainable value in the organization and cannot yet rely on shared values as the 
leading social control mechanism without the support of technical controls as complements to 
social controls.  
This study also has important managerial implications. It provides accountants and other 
practitioners with rich insights on examples and challenges of MCS focusing on multiple value 
creation. These insights are precious given, on the one hand, the paucity of empirical evidence on 
the topic and, on the other hand, the ever-escalating pressures companies are facing concerning 
the sustainability agenda and upcoming legal requirements. In particular, by highlighting the 
importance of various forms of control elements, our analysis reveals that different interdependent 
control elements are needed to deploy a sustainability strategy. In this respect, our in-depth 
description of how Type A and B companies design MCS will provide helpful guidance to 
practitioners faced with the challenge to design a MCS focusing on sustainability. 
A limitation of this study is that due to the COVID-19 pandemic we were able to only physically visit 
a few companies, whereas most of the conducted interviews were held online. Therefore we had 
limited possibilities to collect and analyze field notes. Although we believe that additional fieldnotes 
could have contributed to our findings, we do not anticipate that these fieldnotes would have 
fundamentally changed our conclusions. Another limitation of our findings is that all our selected 
companies are Dutch. Since culture plays an essential role in our findings, this study could lead to 
other outcomes when performed in other countries. 
To conclude, this study created some fruitful insights in the complexities of MCS for sustainability 
and culture. As research advances, certainly more fine-grained classifications, descriptions, and 
dimensions of these MCS can be developed. Future research can verify the effectiveness of 
identified patterns based on a quantitative research approach. We also see performing longitudinal 
case studies on the development of both MCS of Type A and Type B companies as relevant future 
research possibilities. In addition, fascinating new insights can emerge involving more blue-collar 
employees in the study. Also, the potential role of Accounting and Control, including the accounting 
system, regarding diagnostic control mechanisms could be further analyzed. 
 
References 
Abernethy, M.A. & Brownell, P. 1997, "Management control systems in research and development 
organizations: The role of accounting, behavior and personnel controls", Accounting, Organizations 
and Society, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 233-248. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
780 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Abernethy, M.A., Dekker, H.C. & Schulz, A.K. 2015, "Are employee selection and incentive contracts 
complements or substitutes?", Journal of Accounting Research, vol. 53, no. 4, pp. 633-668. 
Arjaliès, D. & Mundy, J. 2013, "The use of management control systems to manage CSR strategy: A levers of 
control perspective", Management Accounting Research, vol. 24, no. 4, pp. 284-300. 
Bedford, D.S. & Malmi, T. 2015, "Configurations of control: An exploratory analysis", Management Accounting 
Research, vol. 27, pp. 2-26. 
Boiral, O. 2013, "Sustainability reports as simulacra? A counter-account of A and A GRI reports", Accounting, 
Auditing & Accountability Journal, vol. 26, no. 7, pp. 1036-1071. 
Campbell, D. 2012, "Employee selection as a control system", Journal of Accounting Research, vol. 50, no. 4, 
pp. 931-966. 
Carroll, A.B. 1979, "A three-dimensional conceptual model of corporate performance", Academy of 
Management Review, vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 497-505. 
De Villiers, C., Venter, E.R. & Hsiao, P.K.K. 2016, "Integrated reporting: background, measurement issues, 
approaches and an agenda for future research", Accounting & Finance, vol. 57, no. 4, pp. 937-959. 
Ditillo, A. & Lisi, I.E. 2016, "Exploring sustainability control systems' integration: The relevance of sustainability 
orientation", Journal of Management Accounting Research, vol. 28, no. 2, pp. 125-148. 
Durden, C. 2008, "Towards a socially responsible management control system", Accounting, Auditing & 
Accountability Journal, vol. 21, no. 5, pp. 671-694. 
Elkington, J. 1994, "Towards the sustainable corporation: Win-win-win business strategies for sustainable 
development", California Management Review, vol. 36, no. 2, pp. 90-100. 
Ferreira, A. & Otley, D. 2009, "The design and use of performance management systems: An extended 
framework for analysis", Management Accounting Research, vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 263-282. 
Flick, U. 2002, "Qualitative research-state of the art", Social Science Information, vol. 41, no. 1, pp. 5-24. 
Gerdin, J. 2020, "Management control as a system: Integrating and extending theorizing on MC 
complementarity and institutional logics", Management Accounting Research, vol. 49, pp. 100716. 
Gerdin, J. 2005, "Management accounting system design in manufacturing departments: an empirical 
investigation using a multiple contingencies approach", Accounting, Organizations and Society, vol. 
30, no. 2, pp. 99-126. 
Gond, J., Grubnic, S., Herzig, C. & Moon, J. 2012, "Configuring management control systems: Theorizing the 
integration of strategy and sustainability", Management Accounting Research, vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 205-
223. 
Grabner, I. 2014, "Incentive system design in creativity-dependent firms", The Accounting Review, vol. 89, no. 
5, pp. 1729-1750. 
Grabner, I. & Moers, F. 2013, "Management control as a system or a package? Conceptual and empirical 
issues", Accounting, Organizations and Society, vol. 38, no. 6, pp. 407-419. 
Guenther, E., Endrikat, J. & Guenther, T.W. 2016, "Environmental management control systems: a 
conceptualization and a review of the empirical evidence", Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 136, 
pp. 147-171. 
Hartmann, F., Perego, P. & Young, A. 2013, "Carbon accounting: Challenges for research in management 
control and performance measurement", Abacus, vol. 49, no. 4, pp. 539-563. 
Jonker, J. & Faber, N. 2021, Organizing for Sustainability: A Guide to Developing New Business Models, 
Springer Nature. 
Jonker, J. & Faber, N. 2019, "Business Models for Multiple Value Creation: Exploring Strategic Changes in 
Organisations Enabling to Address Societal Challenges" in Sustainable Business Models, ed. A. 
Aagaard, Springer, Cham, Switzerland, pp. 151-179. 
Joshi, S. & Li, Y. 2016, "What is corporate sustainability and how do firms practice it? A management 
accounting research perspective", Journal of Management Accounting Research, vol. 28, no. 2, pp. 
1-11. 
Kärreman, D. & Alvesson, M. 2004, "Cages in tandem: Management control, social identity, and identification 
in a knowledge-intensive firm", Organization, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 149-175. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
781 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Kreutzer, M., Cardinal, L.B., Walter, J. & Lechner, C. 2016, "Formal and informal control as complement or 
substitute? The role of the task environment", Strategy Science, vol. 1, no. 4, pp. 235-255. 
Laguir, L., Laguir, I. & Tchemeni, E. 2019, "Implementing CSR activities through management control systems: 
A formal and informal control perspective", Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, vol. 32, 
no. 02, pp. 531-555. 
Langfield-Smith, K. 1997, "Management control systems and strategy: A critical review", Accounting, 
Organizations and Society, vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 207-232. 
Latan, H., Jabbour, C.J.C., de Sousa Jabbour, Ana Beatriz Lopes, Wamba, S.F. & Shahbaz, M. 2018, "Effects of 
environmental strategy, environmental uncertainty and top management's commitment on 
corporate environmental performance: The role of environmental management accounting", 
Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 180, pp. 297-306. 
Ligonie, M. 2021, "Sharing sustainability through sustainability control activities. A practice-based analysis", 
Management Accounting Research, vol. 50, pp. 100726. 
Lueg, R. & Radlach, R. 2016, "Managing sustainable development with management control systems: A 
literature review", European Management Journal, vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 158-171. 
Maas, K., Schaltegger, S. & Crutzen, N. 2016, "Integrating corporate sustainability assessment, management 
accounting, control, and reporting", Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 136, pp. 237-248. 
Malmi, T. & Brown, D.A. 2008, "Management control systems as a package—Opportunities, challenges and 
research directions", Management Accounting Research, vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 287-300. 
Merchant, K. & Van der Stede, W. 2017, Management control systems : performance measurement, 
evaluation and incentives, , London. 
Modell, S. 2005, "Triangulation between case study and survey methods in management accounting research: 
An assessment of validity implications", Management Accounting Research, vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 231-
254. 
Narayanan, V. & Boyce, G. 2019, "Exploring the transformative potential of management control systems in 
organisational change towards sustainability", Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, vol. 32, 
no. 5, pp. 1210-1239. 
Norris, G. & O'Dwyer, B. 2004, "Motivating socially responsive decision making: the operation of management 
controls in a socially responsive organisation", The British Accounting Review, vol. 36, no. 2, pp. 173-
196. 
Ouchi, W.G. 1979, "A Conceptual Framework for the Design of Organizational Control Mechanisms", 
Management Science, vol. 25, no. 9, pp. 833-848. 
Ouchi, W.G. 1977, "The Relationship Between Organizational Structure and Organizational Control", 
Administrative Science Quarterly, vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 95-113. 
Patton, M.Q. 2002, Qualitative research and evaluation methods. Thousand Oaks, 4th edn, Sage Publications, 
California. 
Simons, R. 1995, Levers of Control, Harvard Business School Press, Boston, MA. 
Strauss, A. & Corbin, J. 1990, Basics of qualitative research: Grounded theory procedures 
and techniques, Sage publications, California. 
Sundin, H. & Brown, D.A. 2017, "Greening the black box: integrating the environment and management 
control systems", Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, vol. 30, no. 3, pp. 620-642. 
Traxler, A.A., Schrack, D. & Greiling, D. 2020, "Sustainability reporting and management control–A systematic 
exploratory literature review", Journal of Cleaner Production, , pp. 122725. 
Tregidga, H., Milne, M. & Kearins, K. 2014, "(Re)presenting ‘sustainable organizations’", Accounting, 
Organizations and Society, vol. 39, no. 6, pp. 477-494. 
Tucker, B., Thorne, H. & Gurd, B. 2009, "Management control systems and strategy: What's been 
happening?", Journal of Accounting Literature, vol. 28, pp. 123. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
782 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
A tool to support more sustainable 
circular business models  
 
Ankita Das1,* Nancy Bocken1, Jan Konietzko1, Marc Dijk1 
1Maastricht Sustainability Institute, School of Business and Economics, 
Maastricht University 
*a.das@maastrichtuniversity.nl 
Extended abstract 
Circular business models offer a promising way to transition from the current take-make-waste, 
linear ways of production and consumption (Tukker, 2004, 2015). However, ‘circular’ business 
models are not inherently sustainable, and can have unintended rebound effects that offset the 
intended environmental gains of the new business model (Zink and Geyer, 2017; Blum, Haupt and 
Bening, 2020). This can be in the form of more consumption, as a result of economic savings from 
increased efficiency and affordability (Zink and Geyer, 2017; Warmington-Lundström and Laurenti, 
2020). For example, when consumers make use of a second-hand or rental clothing platform, they 
might buy or rent more products than they would have before because they perceive it to be a 
“sustainable” alternative (Johnson and Plepys, 2021). Thus, despite the initial business goal of 
extending product lifetimes, the overall consumption might increase (Niessen and Bocken, 2021). 
Failing to create net positive environmental impacts from circular business models can inhibit 
companies’ progress towards achieving their sustainability targets. Further, they can risk falling 
behind the competition in a race to comply with new regulations (consider, for example, the new 
anti-greenwashing laws in Denmark, UK and France) (EMF, 2021; CMA, UK, 2022; Lorenzo, 2022), 
and as a result might lose market share. Thus, rebound effects must be kept in mind while designing 
new circular business models.  
The aim of this study is to provide a tool that can help ensure net positive impacts of new circular 
business models and avoid unintended consequences. Circular business models are not yet 
common in the private sector (Bocken, Ritala and Huotari, 2017), and in most cases, companies 
wishing to transform must discover new ways of doing business. As a result, companies often rely 
on business model experimentation to test and validate these new types of business models before 
scaling them to their entire market (Bocken, Weissbrod and Tennant, 2016; Bocken, 2021). Business 
model experimentation refers to the iterative process of trialing new business innovations in order 
to validate ideas, reduce risks and make more evidence-based decisions (Blank, 2013; Bocken, 
Weissbrod and Tennant, 2016). Previous studies have suggested that 80-90% of a product’s 
environmental impact is locked-in in the design phase itself (Millet et al., 2007; Bocken, Schuit and 
Kraaijenhagen, 2018; Konietzko, Bocken and Hultink, 2020). We suggest that this lock-in of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
783 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
environmental impact is similar when designing new circular business models (Mont, 2002, 2004; 
Tukker, 2015). We therefore focus the tool on this early phase of experimentation with new 
business models. The target group is business/product designers, sustainability managers, 
innovators, and entrepreneurs.  
Business managers and innovators that experiment with circular business models, are typically 
interested in creating positive environmental outcomes, in order to stand out from the competition 
(Baldassarre et al., 2020). However, they often do not measure the impact reduction potential of 
these new models when designing them (Baldassarre et al., 2020; Das, Konietzko and Bocken, 
2022). There are two reasons for this. First, the practitioners often lack the expertise, time and 
resources required to measure environmental impact (Das, Konietzko and Bocken, 2022). Second, 
measuring environmental impact has a lower priority than making a profit (Baldassarre et al., 2020). 
As a result, companies primarily use ‘rules of thumb’ to make decisions about future environmental 
impact, especially in the highly uncertain experimentation phase (Bocken and Antikainen, 2018; 
Das, Konietzko and Bocken, 2022). Since most of the environmental impact is determined in the 
experimentation phase, this is also where appropriate guidance on potential environmental impact 
is likely to have the greatest influence. 
The more traditional types of environmental impact measurement methods, such as life cycle 
assessment (LCA) and mass flow analysis (MFA) are still quite important and useful to assess existing 
products and services. But we observed a gap in the experimentation phase – a phase of high 
uncertainty, limited data, time, and resources available to engage with these traditional 
measurement methods. This is also important for organizations without the operational capacity 
to conduct a full LCA or MFA. We propose a new tool that can help companies move towards more 
sustainable outcomes as they trial new circular business models. This tool combines circular 
business models with the principles of lifecycle thinking, waste hierarchy, and keeps in mind 
rebound effects; while emphasizing ease of use compared to the LCA or MFA. The tool aims to guide 
companies in navigating the numerous business model possibilities designers face in the 
experimentation phase – and nudge them towards the ideas with higher environmental impact. 
This tool does not aim to give concrete impact measurement numbers like the LCA, but instead 
adds more evidence-based qualitative guidance to the methods (rules of thumb) that are already 
being used by practitioners to measure impact (Das, Konietzko and Bocken, 2022). 
This study uses the design science research method to develop and test the tool in practice. This 
method provides a problem-solving framework that seeks to solve real-life problems, by developing 
and validating new artifacts, like products, tools or methods. The method follows six steps: 
identifying the problem, defining objectives of the solution, developing the solution (in our case a 
tool), demonstrating it, as well as evaluating and communicating it (Peffers et al., 2007; vom Brocke, 
Hevner and Maedche, 2020). In line with this, we first conducted a series of exploratory interviews 
with circular business innovators, designers and managers to determine what they need in an ideal 
environmental impact measurement tool, tailored for the business experimentation phase. These 
findings will be combined and triangulated with theoretical gaps, that were identified from 
literature (Bocken et al., 2019; Pieroni, McAloone and Pigosso, 2019). The tool will then be tested 
in multiple workshops and further developed based on feedback from practitioners. 
The primary contribution of this study will be a novel tool that can support businesses in exploring 
more sustainable circular business model opportunities during the experimentation phase. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
784 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Secondly, this study will produce an empirical understanding of the needs of practitioners regarding 
the support they need during circular business model innovation. 
A growing number of companies are experimenting with circular business models (Bocken, 2021), 
however, most do not take into account the environmental impact that their business model 
actually might achieve in the design phase (Das, Konietzko and Bocken, 2022). This can result in 
unintended rebound effects that offset the positive environmental gains that they aim to achieve 
(Zink and Geyer, 2017). The tool this study proposes could help companies in estimating the 
potential environmental gains of their new business model in the design phase, where most 
environmental impact is determined. This would thus aid them in successfully transitioning to a 
more circular business model. Future research can work on developing business model innovation 
tools that can support innovators more accurately based on the needs reported from the empirical 
investigation conducted by this study. 
Keywords  
Circular Economy, Circular Business Models, Environmental Impact, Business Model 
Experimentation, Nudging Tool 
References  
Baldassarre, B. et al. (2020) ‘Addressing the design-implementation gap of sustainable business 
models by prototyping: A tool for planning and executing small-scale pilots’, Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 255, p. 120295. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.120295. 
Blank, S. (2013) ‘Why the Lean Start-Up Changes Everything’, Harvard Business Review, p. 14. 
Blum, N.U., Haupt, M. and Bening, C.R. (2020) ‘Why “Circular” doesn’t always mean “Sustainable”’, 
Resources, 
Conservation 
and 
Recycling, 
162, 
p. 
105042. 
doi:10.1016/j.resconrec.2020.105042. 
Bocken, N. et al. (2019) ‘A Review and Evaluation of Circular Business Model Innovation Tools’, 
Sustainability, 11(8), p. 2210. doi:10.3390/su11082210. 
Bocken, N. (2021) ‘Circular Business Models – mapping experimentation in multinational firms.pdf’, 
in Circular Economy Challenges and Opportunities for Ethical and Sustainable Business. 
Routledge. Available at: https://www.routledge.com/Circular-Economy-Challenges-and-
Opportunities-for-Ethical-and-Sustainable/Kopnina-Poldner/p/book/9780367418649. 
Bocken, N. and Antikainen, M. (2018) ‘Circular Business Model Experimentation: concept and 
approaches’, in SDM-2018 5th International Conference on Sustainable Design and 
Manufacturing, p. Gold Coast, Australia. Available at: 25 July 2018. 
Bocken, N., Ritala, P. and Huotari, P. (2017) ‘The Circular Economy: Exploring the Introduction of 
the Concept Among S&P 500 Firms: The Circular Economy: Exploring the Introduction of 
the Concept Among S&P 500 Firms’, Journal of Industrial Ecology, 21(3), pp. 487–490. 
doi:10.1111/jiec.12605. 
Bocken, N., Schuit, C.S.C. and Kraaijenhagen, C. (2018) ‘Experimenting with a circular business 
model: Lessons from eight cases’, Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, 28, 
pp. 79–95. doi:10.1016/j.eist.2018.02.001. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
785 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Bocken, N., Weissbrod, I. and Tennant, M. (2016) ‘Business Model Experimentation for 
Sustainability’, in Setchi, R. et al. (eds) Sustainable Design and Manufacturing 2016. Cham: 
Springer International Publishing (Smart Innovation, Systems and Technologies), pp. 297–
306. doi:10.1007/978-3-319-32098-4_26. 
vom Brocke, J., Hevner, A. and Maedche, A. (2020) ‘Introduction to Design Science Research’, in 
vom Brocke, J., Hevner, A., and Maedche, A. (eds) Design Science Research. Cases. Cham: 
Springer International Publishing (Progress in IS), pp. 1–13. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-46781-
4_1. 
CMA, UK (2022) Making environmental claims on goods and services, GOV.UK. Available at: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/green-claims-code-making-environmental-
claims/environmental-claims-on-goods-and-services (Accessed: 31 January 2022). 
Das, A., Konietzko, J. and Bocken, N. (2022) ‘How do companies measure and forecast 
environmental impacts when experimenting with circular business models?’, Sustainable 
Production and Consumption, 29, pp. 273–285. doi:10.1016/j.spc.2021.10.009. 
EMF 
(2021) 
‘France’s 
Anti-waste 
and 
Circular 
Economy 
Law’. 
Available 
at: 
https://ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/frances-anti-waste-and-circular-economy-
law?utm_source=linkedin&utm_medium=organic_social (Accessed: 26 January 2022). 
Johnson, E. and Plepys, A. (2021) ‘Product-Service Systems and Sustainability: Analysing the 
Environmental 
Impacts 
of 
Rental 
Clothing’, 
Sustainability, 
13(4), 
p. 
2118. 
doi:10.3390/su13042118. 
Konietzko, J., Bocken, N. and Hultink, E.J. (2020) ‘Circular ecosystem innovation: An initial set of 
principles’, 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
253, 
p. 
119942. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.119942. 
Lorenzo, D.D. (2022) ‘Denmark Plans Tighter Rules On Green Marketing, While European Countries 
Might 
Follow 
Suit’, 
Forbes. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/danieladelorenzo/2022/01/30/denmark-plans-tighter-
rules-on-green-marketing-while-european-countries-might-follow-suit/ 
(Accessed: 
31 
January 2022). 
Millet, D. et al. (2007) ‘Does the potential of the use of LCA match the design team needs?’, Journal 
of Cleaner Production, 15(4), pp. 335–346. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2005.07.016. 
Mont, O. (2002) ‘Clarifying the concept of product–service system’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 
10(3), pp. 237–245. doi:10.1016/S0959-6526(01)00039-7. 
Mont, O. (2004) Product-service systems: panacea or myth? Lund (IIIEE Dissertations, 2004,1). 
Niessen, L. and Bocken, N.M.P. (2021) ‘How can businesses drive sufficiency? The business for 
sufficiency framework’, Sustainable Production and Consumption, 28, pp. 1090–1103. 
doi:10.1016/j.spc.2021.07.030. 
Peffers, K. et al. (2007) ‘A Design Science Research Methodology for Information Systems Research’, 
Journal of Management Information Systems, 24(3), pp. 45–77. doi:10.2753/MIS0742-
1222240302. 
Pieroni, M.P.P., McAloone, T.C. and Pigosso, D.C.A. (2019) ‘Business model innovation for circular 
economy and sustainability: A review of approaches’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 215, 
pp. 198–216. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.01.036. 
Tukker, A. (2004) ‘Eight types of product–service system: eight ways to sustainability? Experiences 
from SusProNet’, Business Strategy and the Environment, 13(4), pp. 246–260. 
doi:10.1002/bse.414. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
786 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Tukker, A. (2015) ‘Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy – a review’, Journal 
of Cleaner Production, 97, pp. 76–91. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.049. 
Warmington-Lundström, J. and Laurenti, R. (2020) ‘Reviewing circular economy rebound effects: 
The case of online peer-to-peer boat sharing’, Resources, Conservation & Recycling: X, 5, p. 
100028. doi:10.1016/j.rcrx.2019.100028. 
Zink, T. and Geyer, R. (2017) ‘Circular Economy Rebound’, Journal of Industrial Ecology, 21(3), pp. 
593–602. doi:10.1111/jiec.12545. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
787 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Between Two Taxonomies – 
Assessing Sustainable Business 
Model Patterns Based On The EU 
Green And Social Taxonomies 
 
Raz Godelnik1  
1Parsons School of Design – The New School  
*godelnir@newschool.edu  
Extended abstract 
Climate change—or, as it is increasingly termed, the climate crisis (Kunelius and Roosvall, 2021)—
has become a critical issue for businesses over the last decade. The growing pressure on companies 
to respond with greater urgency and substance to the climate crisis requires them to reassess and 
reconfigure their business models. As Larry Fink, CEO and chairman of BlackRock, wrote in his 2021 
letter to CEOs, “there is no company whose business model won’t be profoundly affected by the 
transition to a net zero economy” (Fink, 2021, para. 14). While this moment highlights the value of 
the sustainable business models (SBMs) discourse in supporting companies in their transition 
journey, it also foregrounds the challenges of utilizing SBM frameworks to assess companies’ 
sustainability performance.  
While there is no single, common definition of sustainability (Süß, Höse and Götze, 2021), the 
understanding of sustainability in the SBM discourse is generally informed by the Brundtland 
Commission’s articulation of sustainable development (e.g., Schaltegger, Hansen and Lüdeke-
Freund, 2016), reflecting a triple-bottom line perspective allied to the stakeholder theory. The 
result is a somewhat ambiguous framing of sustainability, which allows companies to have different 
interpretations of what sustainable value creation stands for across the ecological, social, and 
economic dimensions of value creation (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2020). While this approach may have 
helped the dissemination of the SBM discourse, it has also contributed to the difficulty in evaluating 
the sustainability of business models and their overall impact. As Bradley et al.’s (2020) review of 
SBM frameworks suggests, there is a gap in SBM frameworks in terms of clarity about what 
sustainability means, including social and environmental goals and impacts.  
The urgency of the climate crisis and the consequent need for a more rapid transformation of 
businesses require that more attention be addressed to the aforementioned gaps. Already, it is 
evident that concerns over climate are generating sharp critique of the pursuit of sustainability 
practices, priorities, and frameworks in business that have for the most part produced only 
incremental changes (see, e.g., Bebchuk and Tallarita, 2020; Godelnik, 2021; Kishan, 2021). These 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
788 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
calls necessitate further clarity to allow for a better distinction between substantive and negligible 
efforts on sustainability, especially in the context of addressing climate change. Doing so depends, 
among other things, on contextualizing sustainability within thresholds (Baue, 2019). According to 
Brozovic (2020), the consideration of thresholds, such as the planetary boundaries, is fundamental 
to ensure that an SBM is in line with strong sustainability principles. 
One development in response to the growing need for clarity and contextualization around efforts 
to make businesses more sustainable is the creation of the European Union (EU) taxonomy for 
sustainable activities (also known as the EU green taxonomy). Driven by the urgency of 
environmental and climate risks and the need to support the implementation of the European 
Green Deal, the EU has created this taxonomy, which is “a common classification system for 
sustainable economic activities” (European Commission, no date). The green taxonomy establishes 
clear and detailed screening criteria to determine which economic activities are environmentally 
sustainable and which are not (Lucarelli et al., 2020). The criteria include substantial contribution 
to at least one of six environmental objectives (e.g., climate change mitigation and adaptation, 
pollution prevention, etc.), doing no significant harm to the other five objectives, and complying 
with minimum social safeguards and technical screening criteria (EU Technical Expert Group on 
Sustainable Finance, 2020). In addition, the taxonomy considers not only activities that directly 
make a substantial contribution but also activities that enable other sustainability activities. 
The green taxonomy’s focus on environmental goals presents gaps in terms of considering and 
assessing social objectives. To overcome this gap, a subgroup on social taxonomy in the EU Platform 
on Sustainable Finance has been developing a structure for a social taxonomy, which was shared in 
a draft report in 2021 (Platform on Sustainable Finance, 2021). The proposed structure of this social 
taxonomy includes a horizontal dimension, which considers the impact of activities across the value 
chain on different stakeholder groups (e.g., ensuring decent work), and a vertical dimension, which 
focuses on the contribution of products and services to promote adequate living conditions (e.g., 
access to food and water). Like the green taxonomy, the social taxonomy focuses on articulating 
substantial contribution and “do no significant harm” (DNSH) mechanisms. The draft report also 
considers the potential relationship between the social and green taxonomies, suggesting that 
there are multiple options, ranging from an integration of the two taxonomies into a single 
taxonomy all the way to considering them separately. “A possible relationship should respect the 
principle of equivalence of the social and environmental taxonomies,” the report’s authors suggest 
(Platform on Sustainable Finance, 2021, p. 53). 
The work conducted so far on the green and social taxonomies offers a unique opportunity to assess 
SBMs based on their alignment with substantive response to critical environmental and social 
challenges, with consideration of the climate crisis in mind. To do so, in this paper, the author 
develops a model informed by the option presented in the draft report of incorporating both 
taxonomies into one, with a list of environmental and social objectives as well as DNSH criteria. This 
model incorporates the robustness and strictness of the taxonomies’ assessment criteria, while 
creating four levels of alignment with the taxonomies’ criteria, from full alignment with both 
environmental and social criteria to no alignment with either set of criteria. This design is intended 
to ensure a holistic approach to sustainability, emphasizing the urgency of addressing climate 
change and the need to do so in a just manner. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
789 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
To test the assessment capabilities of this model, the paper presents its application to an SBM 
framework. The author chose the SBM pattern taxonomy, which was developed by Lüdeke-Freund 
et al. (2018) and includes 45 SBM patterns that are grouped into 11 pattern groups. This taxonomy 
is very detailed and comprehensive, with clear representations of the different sustainability 
dimensions (ecological, social, and economic). While it aims to serve as a design tool for businesses, 
it does not provide a mechanism to assess the sustainability performance of the different patterns 
in terms of substantial contribution and compliance with minimum safeguards. As such, the model 
presented in this paper can provide a complementary tool for practitioners interested in applying 
SBMs meaningfully.  
Using the detailed description of SBM patterns and groups presented in Appendix I of the pattern 
taxonomy paper (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018), the proposed model is used to assess each pattern, 
evaluating it according to the green and social taxonomy criteria, categorizing it into one of the four 
levels defined in the model, and providing it with a sustainability rating accordingly (e.g., “very high” 
corresponding to the first level, “high” the second level, and so on).  
This paper presents the design of the model as well as the results of the assessment process, 
followed by a discussion of the possible advantages of applying the EU green and social taxonomies 
in assessing SBMs. The aim of this inquiry is to show the potential of the EU taxonomies to 
complement current SBM classifications, creating an effective framework to help assess which 
SBMs could support a just transition to a low-carbon economy. 
Keywords  
Green taxonomy, social taxonomy, sustainable business model, sustainability, climate change.  
References  
Baue, B. (2019) Compared to What? A Three-Tiered Typology of Sustainable Development 
Performance Indicators From Incremental to Contextual to Transformational , UNRISD. 
Geneva. Available at: https://rb.gy/4icub9 (Accessed: 2 October 2020). 
Bebchuk, L. A. and Tallarita, R. (2020) ‘The Illusory Promise of Stakeholder Governance’, Cornell Law 
Review. Elsevier BV, 106, pp. 91–178. doi: 10.2139/SSRN.3544978. 
Bradley, P., Parry, G. and O’Regan, N. (2020) ‘A framework to explore the functioning and 
sustainability of business models’, Sustainable Production and Consumption, 21, pp. 57–77. 
doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2019.10.007. 
Brozovic, D. (2020) ‘Business model based on strong sustainability: Insights from an empirical 
study’, 
Business 
Strategy 
and 
the 
Environment, 
29(2), 
pp. 
763–778. 
doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2440. 
EU Technical Expert Group on Sustainable Finance (2020) Taxonomy: Final report of the Technical 
Expert Group on Sustainable Finance. 
European Commission (no date) EU taxonomy for sustainable activities, European Commission. 
Available at: https://bit.ly/3oNynwb (Accessed: 17 January 2022). 
Fink, L. (2021) Larry Fink’s 2021 letter to CEOs, BlackRock. 
Godelnik, R. (2021) Rethinking Corporate Sustainability in the Era of Climate Crisis: A Strategic 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
790 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Design Approach. Springer Nature. 
Kishan, S. (2021) Corporate Climate Efforts Lack Impact, Say Former Sustainability Executives, 
Bloomberg Green. Available at: https://bloom.bg/326zoHG (Accessed: 17 January 2022). 
Kunelius, R. and Roosvall, A. (2021) ‘Media and the Climate Crisis’, Nordic Journal of Media Studies, 
3(1), pp. 1–19. doi: doi:10.2478/njms-2021-0001. 
Lucarelli, C. et al. (2020) ‘Classification of Sustainable Activities: EU Taxonomy and Scientific 
Literature’, Sustainability, 12(16). doi: 10.3390/su12166460. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. et al. (2018) ‘The sustainable business model pattern taxonomy—45 patterns to 
support sustainability-oriented business model innovation’, Sustainable Production and 
Consumption. Elsevier B.V., 15, pp. 145–162. doi: 10.1016/j.spc.2018.06.004. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. et al. (2020) ‘Sustainable Value Creation Through Business Models’, Journal of 
Business Models, 8(3), pp. 62–90. doi: 10.5278/JBM.V8I3.6510. 
Platform on Sustainable Finance (2021) Draft Report by Subgroup 4: Social Taxonomy. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. G. and Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) ‘Business Models for Sustainability: 
Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues’, Organization \& Environment, 29(1), pp. 
3–10. doi: 10.1177/1086026615599806. 
Süß, A., Höse, K. and Götze, U. (2021) ‘Sustainability-Oriented Business Model Evaluation—A 
Literature Review’, Sustainability, 13(19). doi: 10.3390/su131910908. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
791 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
A Roadmap to Future Corporate 
Sustainability 
Findings From a Danish Multi-case Study 
 
Kari Kleine1, *, Steffen Schwab1, Silas Vogtmann1 
1University of Southern Denmark 
*kleine@iti.sdu.dk  
Extended abstract 
The need for business models to become more sustainable is widely acknowledged nowadays (Tunn 
et al., 2019). There exists growing interest in developing more sustainable business models through 
e.g., the adoption of circular economy principles (see for example Bocken et al., 2017) or 
intensifying the contribution of business models towards circular economy practice (Lüdeke-Freund 
et al., 2019). While this and related research provides useful insights into more sustainable practice, 
many companies and especially small und medium-sized companies (SMEs) face difficulties in 
assessing their current state of sustainability (Benn et al., 2014), which represents an important 
step at the beginning of implementing activities for improved sustainability performance. In 
addition, the processes within companies that have already progressed further towards sustainable 
practice are oftentimes not sufficiently explicit or visible at all (Dhanda & Shrotryia, 2020). 
Therefore, and to support the development towards more sustainable business models, this paper 
aims to answer the following generic question: how can SMEs become more sustainable and what 
are characteristics of this process? 
The data set comprises information from 21 companies primarily based in Southern Denmark. The 
Danish context is of special interest as Denmark has been a forerunner in promoting ambitious 
corporate social responsibility (Toft & Rendtorff, 2021) and as such contains both companies that 
have made significant advances towards sustainable practice as well as companies that are only at 
the beginning of that avenue (see also Kristensen, 2016). The data consist of 30 semi-structured 
interviews (suitable to develop a comparable data foundation while maintaining flexibility; see also 
Adams, 2015 & Gioia et al., 2013) and various company key metrics (such as size and headquarter 
location) and reports. The dataset was developed during 2021 and contains both high and low 
performing companies regarding sustainability which is conducive in a multi-case study approach 
(Langley & Abdallah, 2011). In following this approach, we adopt grounded theory principles in 
analysing primarily qualitative data (Glaser & Strauss, 1967). The data were collected and analysed 
in a process of iterative coding while pursuing inductive reasoning to ground emerging constructs 
in empirical data (Eisenhardt, 1989; see also Yin, 2018). Following the method proposed by Gioia 
and colleagues (2013), we developed a data structure consisting of first order codes, second order 
themes and aggregate dimensions as basis for the data analysis. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
792 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The analysis of the case companies and their efforts on the road towards improved sustainability 
yielded rich data that serve as the basis for the following findings. The aggregate dimensions that 
represent the final level of the data structure are as follows: (1) an unharmonized area of 
sustainability, meaning that the interpretation of what sustainability actually means to companies 
differs greatly and is therefore difficult to grasp as a concept; (2) external barriers to increased 
sustainability, e.g., through misaligned stakeholder expectations; (3) internal barriers consisting of 
the lack of resources and management commitment amongst others; (4) ways to lower barriers 
e.g., through the definition of appropriate strategies and communication efforts to align internal 
and external assets; (5) motives and drivers that promote sustainability efforts through legislation 
or active risk management i.a.; (6) direct benefits consisting of cost savings, improved marketing 
and branding, and employer and employee satisfaction that result in increased competitive 
advantage; (7) defining corporate identity. These dimensions allow a comparison of the various 
cases and ultimately result in defining a stage model that illustrates progress towards sustainable 
practice. Each stage is named in line with defining characteristics as displayed in figure 1. 
Fig. 1: Six stages of increased corporate sustainability 
 
While these stages and their characteristics are mostly descriptive, the data analysis yielded further 
results that address the activities that are required to progress along the stages of this roadmap 
towards the “promised land” of sustainable corporate practice (see figure 2 for details). 
Fig. 2: Activities to progress along the stages towards improved corporate sustainability 
 
Further, the preliminary data analysis provides detailed information about benefits, risks, 
challenges, minimum requirements and additional recommendations of each stage and their 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
793 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
respective activities. In summary, the findings consist of a detailed “roadmap” that illustrates the 
details of sequential stages of improving corporate sustainability. 
The results contain implications for practice, research, and policy makers alike. Although these 
implications and conclusions are merely preliminary as of now, they promise significant 
contributions. Companies can utilize the roadmap to assess their current state of sustainable 
practice and identify steps for improvement, e.g., by recognizing and exploiting low-effort and 
readily available potential (also called low-hanging fruits). Furthermore, they get an idea of future 
steps which might serve as a basis for short and mid-term strategies to move towards more 
sustainable practice. Research benefits from this work as it begins to fill the gap of missing and 
explicit steps on the path to corporate sustainability (Dhanda & Shrotryia, 2020). As such, this work 
can represent a building stone for future research that enriches the details and dynamics of 
assessing and managing sustainable practice (and performance) of corporations and business 
models. Finally, policy makers gain in-depth insights into actual practice and challenges related to 
improving sustainable performance of businesses that can be utilized for the development of 
initiatives that promote corporate sustainability. Despite these promising contributions, this work 
is limited in terms of scope and method. There exists a context-dependency of the results which 
might make their use in other contexts difficult or calls for adjustment. Although the stage model 
includes theoretical constructs and implications, it is not yet linked to other models that serve 
similar purposes. Nonetheless, this work represents a useful addition to existing knowledge about 
tools and methods that improve the sustainability performance of corporate practice. 
Keywords  
Corporate sustainability, multi-case study, stage model, Danish context. 
References  
Adams, W. C. (2015). Conducting Semi-Structured Interviews. In K. E. Newcomer, H. P. Hatry, & J. 
S. Wholey (Eds.), Handbook of Practical Program Evaluation (pp. 492–505). John Wiley & 
Sons, Inc. 
Benn, S., Edwards, M., & Williams, T. (2014) Organizational change for corporate sustainability. 
Routledge. 
Bocken, N. M. P., Olivetti, E. A., Cullen, J., Potting, J., and Lifset, R. (2017). Taking the circularity to 
the next level: A special issue on the circular economy. Journal of Industrial Ecology 21(3): 
476–482. 
Dhanda, U. and Shrotryia, V.K. (2021) Corporate sustainability: the new organizational reality. 
Qualitative Research in Organizations and Management. Vol. 16 No. 3/4, pp. 464-487. 
Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989). Building Theories from Case Study Research. Academy of Management 
Review, 14(4), 532–550. 
Gioia, D. A., Corley, K. G., & Hamilton, A. L. (2013). Seeking Qualitative Rigor in Inductive Research: 
Notes on the Gioia Methodology. Organizational Research Methods, 16(1), 15–31. 
Glaser, B. G., & Strauss, A. L. (1967). The discovery of grounded theory: Strategies for qualitative 
research. Routledge. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
794 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Kristensen, P. H. (2016). Constructing chains of enablers for alternative economic futures: Denmark 
as an example. Academy of Management Perspectives, 30(2), 153-166. 
Langley, A., & Abdallah, C. (2011). Templates and Turns in Qualitative Studies of Strategy and 
Management. In D. D. Bergh & D. J. Ketchen (Eds.), Research Methodology in Strategy and 
Management (Vol. 6, pp. 201–235). Emerald Group Publishing Limited. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Gold, S.; Bocken, N. M. P. (2019) A Review and Typology of Circular Economy 
Business Model Patterns. Journal of Industrial Ecology. Vol. 23, Issue 1, pp. 36–61. 
Toft, K. H., & Rendtorff, J. D. (2021). Corporate Social Responsibility in Denmark. In: Idowu, S.O. 
(eds.)  Current Global Practices of Corporate Social Responsibility. Springer, Cham., pp. 79-
97. 
Tunn, V.S.C., Bocken, N.M.P., van den Hende, E.A., Schoormans, J.P.L.  (2019) Business models for 
sustainable consumption in the circular economy: An expert study. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, Volume 212, Pages 324-333. 
Yin, R. K. (2018). Case study research and applications: Design and methods (Sixth edition). SAGE. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
795 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Including Environmental Impact 
Considerations in the Business 
Model Innovation Process for 
Industrial Symbiosis 
The GAIA model 
Leonie Schlüter1*,2, Kasper David Pedersen Storrs2,3, Lone 
Kørnøv3, Ivar Lyhne3, Søren Løkke3, Lucia Mortensen2, Belinda 
Nors2, Rasmus Revsbeck4 
1Aalborg University Business School; 2Port of Aalborg A/S, Research 
& Development; 3Aalborg University, Department of Planning, DCEA; 
4Region Midtjylland, Skottenborg 26 
*leonie@business.aau.dk 
Extended abstract 
Introduction 
Industrial symbiosis (IS) is a collective approach for an exchange, sharing, or transaction of excess 
resources (including materials, energy, and water) between organizations of traditionally separate 
industries (Chertow, 2000). Considered a means of realizing a circular economy (Sommer, 2020), 
the concept has received increasing attention in research in recent years (Mallawaarachchi et al., 
2020; Vahidzadeh et al., 2021). IS can be seen as a way of improving the sustainability of individual 
companies’ business models, as well as a way of creating collaborative business models (see e.g. 
Albino and Fraccascia, 2015) that are widely considered an archetype of circular business models 
in themselves (Bocken et al., 2014; Phi et al., 2020). 
Problem formulation 
There are a variety of tools that practitioners can use during the IS development process. Much of 
the focus within the research field centres on the technical dimensions of IS, including digital tools 
(Kosmol and Leyh, 2019), process integration and mathematical optimization methods (Lawal et al., 
2021), as well as other methods assisting with ideation, concept development, and implementation. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
796 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
For the assessment of environmental impacts, calculations using life cycle assessment (LCA) 
methods have been presented in several publications (Daddi, Nucci and Iraldo, 2017; Martin and 
Harris, 2018; Løkke et al., 2020). 
These calculations are, however, quite complex. Considering the time, competencies, and resources 
needed, LCA is perhaps more appropriate for expert use, and less suitable for practitioner use 
throughout the IS development process. There is currently no middle ground between a principle-
based estimation, such as reuse being considered more advantageous than recycling, and 
conducting LCAs. This research aims to address this gap by presenting a practical tool for 
incorporating environmental impact considerations into the IS development process.  
Methods 
 
Figure 11: The process of building and testing the GAIA model. 
During an IS facilitation project, the project team engaged in an iterative and co-creating process 
to develop a tool for pre-LCA environmental impact considerations.  
Systems thinking elements (A) 
The model for Green Business Development through Industrial Symbiosis, hereafter `The GAIA 
model’29, incorporated literature on systems thinking, both on a conceptual level and regarding the 
methods for mapping and analysing environmental impacts (Kørnøv, Lyhne, Nors, et al., 2020). The 
three key concepts the model building process relied upon were: interdependency, feedback, and 
adaptation. The system modelling framework in consequential LCA formed the foundation for the 
model. With the question in focus being “how will flows change in response to decisions?” 
(Weidema et al., 2018, p. 308), impacts of a decision within one system on a wider system were 
analysed.  
Characteristics of practical operationalization (B) 
 
29 To highlight both the analogy with nature that the concept of IS emerged through and the systems thinking 
principles that underlie our developed model, the name was inspired by the GAIA hypothesis. This hypothesis 
states that living organisms interact with their surroundings to form a synergistic and self-regulating and 
complex system (Lovelock and Margulis, 1974). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
797 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Inspired by the work of Alter (2011) and his recommendations for practitioner tools, the model was 
built with the intention to help: businesses “organize and explore their own understanding”; 
“provide guidance”; develop an understanding “regardless of whether technical experts are 
available”; reduce the need for “extensive data or new data collection” (p. 1-2). In addition to 
“typical business terminology” (p. 1) being included in the model, the model was also designed to 
resemble the structure of the BM canvas (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010), which many 
practitioners are familiar with. 
Dialogue, reflection, and co-creation (C) 
The elements from systems thinking and Alter’s characteristics listed above were the building 
blocks for the authors’ iterative process, anchored in dialogue, reflection, and co-creation of the 
model. The authors’ experience and expertise within LCA, sustainability science, and business 
development was then used to develop an initial model of GAIA. Next, participatory action research 
involved working and co-creating with companies to explore the environmental impacts of BMs 
during the innovation process via use of the initial model. Special attention was paid to the relations 
and interactions between researchers (i.e., the authors) and the corporate representatives, as well 
as their potential implication regarding the validity and reliability of the study (Kørnøv et al., 2016). 
Pilot models use and test in practice (D) 
The use and test of the GAIA model in practice was an integrated element of an IS facilitation project 
in Aalborg, Denmark, with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. In total, 42 business 
model innovation processes were undertaken, spanning 16 different industrial symbioses in 
collaboration with 24 companies (Kørnøv, Lyhne, Schlüter, et al., 2020). Informal feedback on the 
model was given during the collaboration. While the model was tested on all symbioses, its usability 
is highlighted in the present abstract through its application to two selected cases. 
 
Results 
The GAIA model acts as a tool for considering the impacts of closing resource loops through an IS 
collaboration. The model is adopted at points in the process, where ideas regarding the potential 
application of excess resources emerge. Throughout the process of IS development, the tool is then 
populated by each party participating in the symbiosis. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
798 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
Figure 12: The GAIA-model (Kørnøv, Lyhne, Nors, et al., 2020). 
 
 
The effects of using the GAIA model are exemplified through the following two symbioses: 
Case 1. Symbiosis between steel companies in an industrial area for the recycling of plastic 
sheets 
Minor plastic waste fractions, comprising corrugated polypropylene sheets, are used as a protective 
layer separating steel plates and sent for incineration at a local waste-to-energy plant. A shared 
logistical solution was designed to enable the collection of the fractions from multiple sites and 
their transport to a recycling facility. 
Case 2. Symbiosis between farms within the region for the recycling of agricultural foil 
Agricultural foils (agri-foils) comprise high-density polyethylene sheets primarily used to protect 
crops. The foil is rolled into bales up to 1km in length following use and sent for local incineration, 
with minor quantities recycled abroad. The IS concept describes a collection and recycling model 
for these fractions. 
The application of GAIA to these cases highlighted several important interconnections and feedback 
mechanisms, and further illustrated the need for an adaptive system when implementing and 
assessing circular business models: 
Impacts 
Local recycling and re-entry into the system will not only substitute another, possibly virgin, 
material, but will also help reduce the environmental impacts of transporting virgin plastic from a 
plastic producing company further afield (case 1 and 2). However, the sustainability of the business 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
799 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
model depends on how the newly collected waste plastic is recycled and what material it 
substitutes within the system. 
Feedback loop 
A local logistical solution for both plastic types may reduce the economic barrier among companies 
within the area, thus positively impacting the sustainability of the wider system (case 1 and 2). 
Burden shifting 
As plastic is diverted from local incineration plants, it is replaced by coal in the local energy system, 
which negatively impacts the sustainability of the business model. However, as the share of 
renewable energy in the energy system increases, the sustainability of the BM will improve. 
Another potential burden shifting occurs when multiple phases of processing results in increased 
energy and water consumption, both impacting the sustainability of the business model. 
Adaptations 
The collected agri-foil must be cleaned before it is recycled. One adaptation identified by the use 
of the GAIA model, is that the weight of the foil can be minimised by rinsing the agri-foils on-site 
prior to collection, which helps to reduce the burden on fuel consumption during transportation to 
the recycling facility. Another adaptation relates to the fact that the foil requires further processing 
at a facility. Presently, there are no sites in Denmark which can recycle 1 km long agri-foil sheets. 
Thus, capital investment in new technology, additional staff, and the adaption of existing policies 
are needed. 
Conclusions 
The uses of the GAIA model showed that a practical tool based on systems thinking and the 
consequential LCA paradigm can support the IS development process and give users a better 
understanding of environmental impacts, where feedback loops, burden shifting, and potential 
adaptations are considered. 
Future research avenues lay in a better integration of the industrial symbiosis and circular business 
model concept and in the development of systems thinking principles for circular business models 
more generally. 
Keywords 
Industrial symbiosis, circular economy, business model, environmental impact, systems thinking 
tool 
 
Acknowledgements. This research has not been supported by external research funding. However, 
the research idea and content has been inspired by participation in the EU-supported project 
‘Sustainable Synergies’, for which Aalborg University was the operator and which was funded by 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
800 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the National Operational Program for the European Regional Development Fund, 2014–2020.  We 
thank Anton Møller for the design of the graphics. 
References 
Albino, V. and Fraccascia, L. (2015) ‘The industrial symbiosis approach: A classification of business models’, in 
Procedia Environmental Science, Engineering and Management. Rimini Fiera, Italy: 19th 
International Trade Fair of Material & Energy Recovery and Sustainable Development, ECOMONDO, 
pp. 217–223. Available at: http://www.procedia-esem.eu (Accessed: 3 April 2022). 
Alter, S. (2011) ‘The Work System Method: Systems Thinking for Business Professionals’, Business Analytics 
and 
Information 
Systems, 
32. 
Available 
at: 
http://repository.usfca.edu/athttp://repository.usfca.edu/at/32 (Accessed: 11 February 2022). 
Bocken, N. et al. (2014) ‘A literature and practice review to develop sustainable business model archetypes’, 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 65, pp. 42–56. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.039. 
Chertow, M. R. (2000) ‘Industrial Symbiosis: Literature and Taxonomy’, Annual Review of Energy and the 
Environment, 25(1), pp. 313–337. doi: 10.1146/annurev.energy.25.1.313. 
Daddi, T., Nucci, B. and Iraldo, F. (2017) ‘Using Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to measure the environmental 
benefits of industrial symbiosis in an industrial cluster of SMEs’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 147, 
pp. 157–164. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.01.090. 
Kørnøv, L. et al. (2016) ‘Change Agents in the Field of Strategic Environmental Assessment: What Does it 
Involve and What Potentials Does it Have for Research and Practice?’, Progress in Environmental 
Assessment 
Policy, 
and 
Management 
Theory 
and 
Practice, 
pp. 
95–120. 
doi: 
10.1142/9781783268382_0006. 
Kørnøv, L., Lyhne, I., Nors, B., et al. (2020) Green Business Development through Industrial Symbiosis - The 
’GAIA model’. Aalborg. doi: 10.13140/RG.2.2.16819.91687. 
Kørnøv, L., Lyhne, I., Schlüter, L., et al. (2020) Sustainable Synergies: Experiences from facilitating Industrial 
Symbiosis in Aalborg East 2017-2020. Aalborg, Denmark: The Danish Centre for Environmental 
Assessment, Aalborg University. 
Kosmol, L. and Leyh, C. (2019) ‘ICT usage in industrial symbiosis: Problem identification and study design’, 
Proceedings of the 2019 Federated Conference on Computer Science and Information Systems, 
FedCSIS 2019, pp. 685–692. doi: 10.15439/2019F323. 
Lawal, M. et al. (2021) ‘Industrial symbiosis tools—A review’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 280, p. 124327. 
doi: 10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2020.124327. 
Løkke, S. et al. (2020) ‘How green are supported “green” business models? Time for the life cycle approach 
to enter public support programmes’, The International Journal of Life Cycle Assessment (2020), 25, 
pp. 2086–2092. doi: 10.1007/s11367-020-01806-9/Published. 
Lovelock, J. E. and Margulis, L. (1974) ‘Atmospheric homeostasis by and for the biosphere: the gaia 
hypothesis’, Tellus, 26(1–2), pp. 2–10. doi: 10.3402/tellusa.v26i1-2.9731. 
Mallawaarachchi, H. et al. (2020) ‘Unveiling the conceptual development of industrial symbiosis: Bibliometric 
analysis’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 258, p. 120618. doi: 10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2020.120618. 
Martin, M. and Harris, S. (2018) ‘Prospecting the sustainability implications of an emerging industrial 
symbiosis network’, Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 138(March), pp. 246–256. doi: 
10.1016/j.resconrec.2018.07.026. 
Osterwalder, A. and Pigneur, Y. (2010) ‘A Handbook for Visionaries, Game Changers, and Challengers Business 
Model Generation’. Available at: https://www.getabstract.com/en/summary/strategy/business-
model-generation/14650 (Accessed: 7 February 2022). 
Phi, C. P. Van et al. (2020) ‘Industrial Symbiosis in Insect Production-A Sustainable Eco-Efficient and Circular 
Business Model’. doi: 10.3390/su122410333. 
Sommer, K. H. (2020) Study and portfolio review of the projects on industrial symbiosis in DG Research and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
801 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Innovation: Findings and recommendations. doi: 10.2777/381211. 
Vahidzadeh, R. et al. (2021) ‘Regional industrial symbiosis: A review based on social network analysis’, Journal 
of Cleaner Production, 280, p. 124054. doi: 10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2020.124054. 
Weidema, B. P. et al. (2018) ‘Attributional or consequential Life Cycle Assessment: A matter of social 
responsibility’, 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
174, 
pp. 
305–314. 
doi: 
10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2017.10.340. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
802 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Developing a qualitative circularity 
assessment tool for pilot-scale 
projects  
 
Emilio Nogueira Moure1, Ángeles Pereira Sánchez1, Juan Alberto 
Turnes Abelenda1, Xabier Vence Deza1  
1ICEDE Research Group. Department of Applied Economics. University 
of Santiago de Compostela  
 
Extended abstract 
The transition towards a more sustainable circular socio-economic model requires solutions at 
micro, meso and macro scale. Many initiatives argue their contribution to circularity on the basis of 
more or less intuitive arguments about circularity principles. However, orienting the innovation of 
actors and the system towards circularity with the objective of achieving a systemic transition in 
the long term requires more consistent instruments to measure or assess with some degree of 
confidence their contributions to that goal. 
Measuring levels or degrees of circularity has become a fundamental requirement for initiatives at 
different levels, from micro solutions to macroeconomic transitions.  In fact, the tools developed to 
measure or evaluate the achievements of circularity from the introduction of changes and 
innovations are very varied (Saidani et al., 2019). Indicators oriented towards user needs are the 
most numerous at the micro level. In this sense, the aim of this article is to develop a circularity 
assessment tool for experimental initiatives, which start from R&D developments and first need to 
be pilot tested. While life cycle analyses can provide an approximate footprint and estimation of 
relevant environmental impacts of these initiatives, the complexity of their calculation may limit 
their applicability in practice. Therefore, it is essential to develop other complementary tools, 
oriented towards measuring circularity, that allow a quicker overview of the potential contribution 
of these experiments to the Circular Economy (CE). 
In this paper we develop a qualitative circularity assessment tool for innovative technological 
solutions. Previous literature suggests that there are different actions for CE; however, a tool to 
measure the potential circularity of these type of projects is missing. We specifically focus on for 
the water mining sector. Smol et al (2020) propose a framework of water CE actions: 1) Reduction 
- Prevent wastewater generation by the reduction of water usage and pollution reduction at source; 
2) Reclamation (removal) - Application of effective technologies for the prevention of inclusion of 
hazardous pollutants and removal of pollutants from water and sewage; 3) Reuse - Reuse of treated 
wastewater as an alternative source of water supply for non-potable usage; 4) Recycling - Recovery 
of water from wastewater for potable use; 5) Recovery of resources as nutrients and energy from 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
803 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
water-based waste; 6) Rethink - Rethinking how to reuse resources to create a sustainable water 
economy which is free of waste and emissions. The International Water Association (IWA, 2016), 
built a framework for CE-supportive water utilities, considering three pathways (water, materials 
and energy). The European Environment Agency (EEA, 2016) also established a set of CE 
requirements that are examined and considered for the design of the circularity assessment tool. 
Building upon these proposals and the resource circulation from the perspective of elements, 
molecules or materials (Blomsma & Tennant, 2020), we design a circularity assessment tool (Table 
1). The tool is multidimensional, comprising 18 items grouped into five categories, according to the 
EEA CE requirements (EEA, 2016), which in turn link to the circular economy loops (narrowing, 
slowing, closing, regenerating) (Konietzko et al., 2020). The tool is designed with the purpose of 
assessing the intrinsic circularity potential of the innovative technological solution focused on water 
mining. 
  
  
  
  
If yes, how important is the achievement? 
(Please, estimate a percentage) 
  
Circularity assesment items 
N/A 
No 
Yes 
Very low 
Low 
Medium 
High 
Very high 
Observations  
Reducing inputs and the use of natural resources (per unit of output) 
1 
Reduction of fresh water use/consumption (water extraction from aquifers, natural sources) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
2 
Reduction of energy use (all sources) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
3 
Reduction of fossil energy use 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
4 
Reduction of the use of resources (minerals, chemicals,...) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
5 
Reduction of infrastructure (land use, construction materials,…) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Increasing the share of renewable and recyclable resources (per unit of output) 
6 
Increased share of renewable energies  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
7 
Reuse of materials in closed loop 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
8 
Energy recovery from water-treatment processes 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Reducing emissions levels (per unit of output) 
9 
Reduction of wastewater discharges 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
10 
Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
11 
Reduction of hazardous pollutants within the processes 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
12 
Increased removal of pollutants from wastewater 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Reducing valuable materials losses (per unit of output) 
13 
Reduction of water losses due to leakage 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
14 
Reduction of water-based waste (sludge, brine) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
15 
Reduction of water-based waste incineration 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
16 
Reduction of losses of valuable resources (minerals,…) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Increasing the value durability of resources (per unit of output) 
17 
Increased volume of reclaimed water (allowing for its reuse for different purposes) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
18 
Recovery of valuable resources from water waste (create new value from minerals, nutrients,...) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
The tool is tested through a case study. Specifically, the tool is used to analyse a project to obtain 
secondary materials from waste - sewage sludge. To do this, the evaluation exercise is presented 
to a committee of experts, who are asked to rate each item on a scale of 1-5 and to quantify the 
improvement expected from the base case. The final assessment, although based on the subjective 
perception of each individual expert, should reflect the overall assessment of the group. To this 
end, a group discussion is organised to reach a consensus. The different items will be aftwerwards 
ranked, also based on expert judgement, in order to set a semi-quantitative ranking. 
The results of the analysis show that the tool is valid and comprehensive. It allows for a systematic 
and consistent assessment of the intrinsic circularity potential of pilot experiments. It is quicker to 
implement than other more sophisticated and complex analyses that require data that are not 
always available.  
The result of this circularity assessment can become a key criterion for policy and business decisions 
and facilitate access to the funding needed to carry out a full-scale project. The tool also has certain 
limitations. The result does not take into account the economic and social dimensions, nor does it 
address systemic impacts for circularity. This last point will be addressed in a subsequent phase. 
Keywords  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
804 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Circularity assessment, circular business models, water mining, wastewater treatment. 
Acknowledgements. “This project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 
research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 869474” 
References: 
Blomsma, F., & Tennant, M. (2020). Circular economy: Preserving materials or products? Introducing the 
Resource States framework. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 156(January), 104698. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2020.104698 
EEA. (2016). Circular economy in Europe. Developing the knowledge base. European Environment agency. 
https://doi.org/10.2800/51444 
IWA. (2016). Water utility pathways in a circular economy. https://iwa-network.org/water-utility-pathways-
circular-economy-charting-course-sustainability/ 
Konietzko, J., Bocken, N., & Hultink, E. J. (2020). A tool to analyze, ideate and develop circular innovation 
ecosystems. Sustainability (Switzerland), 12(1), 14–17. https://doi.org/10.3390/SU12010417 
Saidani, M., Yannou, B., Leroy, Y., Cluzel, F., & Kendall, A. (2019). A taxonomy of circular economy indicators. 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 207, 542–559. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.10.014 
Smol, M., Adam, C., & Preisner, M. (2020). Circular economy model framework in the European water and 
wastewater sector. Journal of Material Cycles and Waste Management, 22(3), 682–697. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10163-019-00960-z 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
805 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Integrating and Measuring 
Sustainability in the Business Models 
of Universities 
 
Federico Rotondo1,*, Lucia Giovanelli2, Alberto Ezza2 
1Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Sassari 
(Italy); 2Department of Economics and Business, University of Sassari 
(Italy) 
*frotondo@uniss.it 
Extended abstract 
Higher education (HE) has a special role in building a sustainable future. In fact, universities have 
the moral responsibility to lead the change in mindset necessary for achieving the vision of a 
healthier, more equitable and sustainable world (Cortese, 2003; UNESCO, 2004). Then they have 
the resources and knowledge to develop ideas and technical solutions to implement this vision 
(Calder and Clugston, 2003; Ramísio et al., 2019). Finally, as ‘entrepreneurial universities’, they are 
generators and platforms of the economic growth of society (Etzkowitz, 2008).  
However, despite the increasing number of initiatives taken by individual universities, they are still 
lagging behind companies in promoting sustainable development (SD) (Boks and Diehl, 2006). In 
particular, most universities have integrated sustainability by focusing on specific areas of their 
activities, such as education, research, outreach, partnerships and green practices on campus 
(Wals, 2014), without embedding it in the system’s strategies and activities as a whole (Bautista-
Puig and Sanz-Casado, 2021). 
Definitely, there is a lack of studies investigating how universities can systematically reorient 
themselves to help society become more sustainable (Lozano et al., 2013; Ramísio et al., 2019). 
Furthermore, a lack of a systemic framework for evaluating performance in the existing SD 
approach in education has been observed (Fuchs et al., 2020; Lin et al., 2016), as well as a deficit in 
studies measuring the outputs of sustainability initiatives across HE institutions (Mader, 2012; 
Vaughter et al., 2013). Finally, a gap also exists between the theoretical and practical research into 
sustainable innovation in HE, which prevents university management from systematically 
rethinking their traditional models.      
This paper addresses these gaps by proposing a conceptual framework for the diagnosis of the 
integration of sustainability in universities from a strategic perspective. In particular, the concept 
of a sustainable business model for interpreting the core logic through which universities create 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
806 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
value for themselves, society and the environment is adopted (Lüdeke-Freund, 2010; Bocken et al., 
2013). The high level of consistency linking the different elements of a business model (Magretta, 
2002) is, in fact, in line with the systemic changes relating to sustainability through which HE 
institutions are simultaneously re-orienting curricula, research, operations and community 
outreach activities. Drawing from the strategic management literature and university sustainability 
literature, the conceptual framework includes the multiple areas in which sustainability can be 
implemented in HE, which are recombined following the business model logic. The following five 
categories identified by Vaughter et al. (2013) are considered: integration of sustainability into 
curricula, integration of sustainability into the management of institutions (governance), 
engagement in research focused on sustainability topics, institutional involvement in community 
engagement with sustainability issues and integration of sustainability into operations. In addition, 
‘assessment and reporting’ is considered as a further category of university sustainability (Lozano, 
2006). This paper is in line with some recent studies that have identified three main elements that 
explain a company’s business model: the structure, the value proposition and the market (Rotondo 
et al., 2019). The structure includes all assets, resources and processes through which a company 
prepares a value proposition, therefore answering the question ‘How is a value proposition built?’ 
The value proposition explains the type of product or service offered to customers and the value 
network involved in the creation of value, i.e., the suppliers, partners, distribution channels and 
customers. Therefore, the value proposition definition answers the two questions: ‘What is 
offered?’ and ‘With whom does a company create value?’ Finally, the market is concerned with the 
target market of a company’s value proposition and answers the question ‘Who are our 
customers?’. 
This framework is applied in the context of Italian state universities to identify business models with 
different degrees of strategic orientation towards sustainability. Then, the business models of 
universities strongly oriented towards sustainability are in-depth analysed in order to examine the 
processes and tools used and the challenges faced when implementing sustainable innovation. This 
addresses the research gap highlighted by Geissdoerfer et al. (2018), who carried out a 
comprehensive review of the literature and found that the main problem that firms face when 
trying to incorporate sustainability into their business is the ‘design-implementation gap’. In 
particular, they set out a central question for future research, i.e., understanding how firms move 
from a BM to an SBM in practice. 
From a methodological point of view, this research uses an explanatory sequential mixed method. 
During the first stage, a quantitative analysis is carried out to identify the SBMs adopted by 
universities using the conceptual framework for investigating the ways and level to which 
sustainability is integrated into the different elements of a university’s business model. The 
university sample includes all 61 Italian state universities. Key indicators are selected to measure 
the four categories that compose the three elements of a university’s sustainable business model, 
and then used as inputs in a cluster analysis. During the second stage, a qualitative approach is used 
to investigate the process, tools and challenges involved in implementing sustainable innovation by 
some significant cases (Eisenhardt, 1989). 
To triangulate data and build a chain of evidence, interviews with key stakeholders involved in 
university strategic management and sustainability management, document analysis of 
universities’ official websites, strategic plans and performance reports, mandatory disclosure 
documents and national datasets are used as main sources of information. From the cross-case 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
807 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
analysis, the inferences regarding the process and tools used and the challenges faced by 
universities when implementing sustainable innovation are drawn. Based on these inferences, 
some theoretical propositions are set out. 
From a theoretical perspective, the findings contribute to filling gaps in knowledge and empirical 
evidence relating to strategies developed by universities to re-orient themselves towards 
sustainability. By using the concept of a sustainable business model for the first time in the context 
of HE, this study sheds new light on the relationships between the elements and areas in which 
sustainability can be strategically incorporated into university activity to enhance value creation at 
a system level.  
This paper contributes to the session to which it is submitted and to the overall conference theme 
by proposing a framework to assess sustainability integration into the business models of 
universities. In regard to managing the sustainability performance, it also advances research on 
sustainable innovation by adopting a BM perspective and contributes to filling the gap in the 
literature on the implementation of the process, the tools that should be used to pass from design 
to implementation and the main challenges that may hinder this transition. This study has also 
important implications for practitioners. First, it presents a categorization of SBM archetypes, 
providing an understanding of how SBMs can be developed in practice. This can help university 
management to identify alternatives, select the most applicable one and then innovate the BM in 
relation to a university’s type, mission, history and core competences. Finally, it supports 
policymakers in building a more sustainable HE system by highlighting areas and activities to be 
addressed by specific regulations, guidelines, and incentives aimed at fostering sustainability in 
universities.  
Summary 
Higher education (HE) has a special role in building a sustainable future. However, despite the 
increasing number of initiatives taken by individual universities, they are still lagging behind 
companies in promoting sustainable development (SD). There is a lack of studies investigating how 
universities can systematically reorient themselves to help society become more sustainable as well 
as a deficit in studies measuring the outputs of sustainability initiatives across HE institutions. 
This paper adopts the concept of a sustainable business model for interpreting the core logic 
through which universities create value for themselves, society and the environment, and proposes 
a conceptual framework for the diagnosis of the integration of sustainability in universities from a 
strategic perspective.  
From a methodological point of view, an explanatory sequential mixed method is used. First, a 
quantitative analysis is carried out to identify the sustainable business models adopted by the 
Italian State universities. Then, a qualitative approach is used to investigate the process, tools and 
challenges involved in implementing sustainable innovation.  
The findings contribute to filling gaps in knowledge and empirical evidence relating to strategies 
developed by universities to re-orient themselves towards sustainability and shed new light on the 
relationships between the elements and areas in which sustainability can be strategically 
incorporated into university activity. It also advances research on sustainable innovation and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
808 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
contributes to filling the gap in the literature on the process and the tools that should be used to 
pass from design to implementation, and the main challenges that may hinder this transition.  
Keywords  
Sustainability, sustainable business model, sustainable innovation, higher education, Italian state 
universities. 
References 
Bautista-Puig, N. & Sanz-Casado, E. (2021) Sustainability practices in Spanish higher education institutions: an 
overview of status and implementation. Journal of Cleaner Production. 295, 126320 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.126320.  
Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2013) A value mapping tool for sustainable business modelling. 
Corporate Governance. 13, 482–497. https://doi.org/10.1108/CG-06- 2013-0078.  
Boks, C. & Diehl, J.C. (2006) Integration of sustainability in regular courses: experiences in industrial design 
engineering. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
14, 
932–939. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/ 
j.jclepro.2005.11.038.  
Calder, W. & Clugston, R.M. (2003) International efforts to promote higher education for sustainable 
development. Planning for Higher Education. 31, 30–44.  
Cortese, A.D. (2003) The critical role of higher education in creating a sustainable future. Planning for Higher 
Education. 31, 15–22.  
Eisenhardt, K.M. (1989) Building Theories from Case Study Research. Academy of Management Review. 14, 
532–550. https://doi.org/10.2307/258557 
Etzkowitz, H. (2008) The Triple Helix: University-Industry-Government Innovation in Action. Routledge, New 
York.  
Fuchs, P., Raulino, C., Conceiça ̃o, D., Neiva, S., Amorim, W.S.d, Soares, T.C., Andrade de Lima, M., 
Montenegro De Lima, C.R., Soares, J.C. & Andrade Guerra, J.B.S.O.d.A. (2020) Promoting sustainable 
development in higher education institutions: the use of the balanced scorecard as a strategic 
management system in support of green marketing. Int. Journal of Sustainability in Higher Education. 
21, 1477–1505. https://doi.org/10.1108/ IJSHE-02-2020-0079.  
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D. & Evans, S. (2018) Sustainable business model innovation: A review. Journal 
of Cleaner Production. 198, 401–416. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.240 
Lozano, R. (2006) Incorporation and institutionalization of SD into universities: breaking through barriers to 
change. Journal of Cleaner Production. 14, 787–796. https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.jclepro.2005.12.010.  
Lozano, R., Lukman, R., Lozano, F.J., Huisingh, D. & Lambrechts, W. (2013) Declarations for sustainability in 
higher education: becoming better leaders, through addressing the university system. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 48, 10–19. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. jclepro.2011.10.006.  
Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2010) Towards a conceptual framework of ‘business models for sustainability’. In Wever, 
R., Quist, J., Tukker, A., Woudstra, J., Boons, J. & Beute, N. (Eds), Knowledge Collaboration and 
Learning for Sustainable Innovation, Delft, ERSCP-EMSU Conference 2010, The Netherlands, October 
25-29, 2010. 
Mader, C. (2012) How to assess transformative performance towards sustainable development in higher 
education institutions. Journal of Education for Sustainable Development. 6, 79–89. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/097340821100600114.  
Magretta, J. (2002) Why business models matter. Harvard Business Review. 80, 86–92. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
809 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Ramísio, P.J., Pinto, L.M.C., Gouveia, N., Costa, H. & Arezes, D. (2019) Sustainability strategy in higher 
education institutions: lessons learned from a nine-year case study. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
222, 300–309. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.02.257.  
Rotondo, F., Corsi, K. & Giovanelli, L. (2019) The social side of sustainable business models: an explorative 
analysis of the low-cost airline industry. Journal of Cleaner Production. 225, 806–819. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.03.345.  
UNESCO (2004) UN Decade for Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014).  
Vaughter, P., Wright, T., McKenzie, M. & Lidstone, L. (2013) Greening the Ivory tower: a review of educational 
research on sustainability in post-secondary education. Sustainability. 5, 2252–2271. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su5052252.  
Wals, A.E.J. (2014) Sustainability in higher education in the context of the UN DESD: a review of learning and 
institutionalization 
processes. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
62, 
8–15. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.06.007.  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
810 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Role of eco-labels in implementing 
sustainable circular business models 
Perspectives of textile companies in Finland 
Johanna Suikkanen,1,2 *, Annukka Näyhä1,   
1Jyväskylä School of Business and Economics; 2Finnish Environment 
Institute  
*Johanna.suikkanen@syke.fi  
Extended abstract 
Introduction 
The textile sector is complex and resource intensive, leading to various significant environmental 
impacts upstream and downstream of the globalized value chains (Watson and Wiedemann, 2019; 
Pal and Gander, 2018; Pedersen et al., 2018). Fast fashion provoked shortened lifetimes of textiles 
have accelerated environmental problems and amounts of textile waste (Niinimäki et al., 2020; 
Dahlbo et al., 2021). The sector is among the largest in terms of consumption of raw materials and 
water, chemical pollution and GHG emissions (Dahlbo et al., 2021). Efforts to improve the 
sustainability of textile production and consumption have relied on single organisations, consumers 
and producers (Virta and Räisänen, 2021). In the fashion industry sustainable business models 
based on upcycling, recycling, and sharing have emerged but are still in the minority, and a more 
systemic change is needed (Pedersen et al., 2018). As a response, a coherent set of actions for a 
circular textile ecosystem along textile value chains, incentivizing sustainable consumption and 
business models, was proposed by the European Commission (EC, 2022).  A growing literature on 
sustainable business models identifies the ways businesses operate as part of the solution to 
address sustainability challenges (Geissdoerfer et al. 2018). Although there remain conceptual 
ambiguities in the definition of a sustainable business model (Dentchev et al., 2018; Geissdoerfer 
et al., 2020), it is suggested that by integrating ecological, social and economic value creation and 
involving stakeholders beyond customers and shareholders business models can be designed in a 
way that they advance sustainable development (Schaltegger et al. 2016). Further, how companies 
design and remodel or design their business models in sustainable way is about how they capture, 
create and deliver value in ways that significantly reduce negative impacts on the environment and 
society and create positive societal and environmental impact (Bocken et al., 2014; Pedersen et al., 
2018; Kraaijenhagen et al., 2016).   Circular business models can be defined as a way of doing 
sustainable business which, in particular, creates, delivers and captures value from resource 
efficiency, longer life times and recycling of resources. Realizing circular business models require 
collaboration and communication between different actors and stakeholders in the value 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
811 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
chain.   (Bakker et al., 2014; Bocken et al., 2016; Bocken et al., 2018 Nußholz, 2017; Antikainen and 
Valkokari, 2016). 
Recent literature reviews have noted the lack of understanding on the role that eco-labels can play 
in advancing a circular economy and related business models (Marrucci et al., 2019; Meis-Harris et 
al., 2021).  As the environmental benefits of circular business models are complex to verify and 
sometimes not investigated (Manninen et al. 2018; Das et al. 2022), the role of eco-labels in 
implementing and advancing sustainable circular business models should be understood better.  
Eco-labels are adopted by companies on a voluntary basis to differentiate products based on 
environmental properties (Yokessa and Marette, 2019). There are over 450 eco-labels in use 
globally (Meis-Harris et al., 2021), and over 90 eco-labels and certifications are available for textiles 
(Textile Standards, 2022; Textile Exchange, 2022), many commonly used in the Nordic countries 
(Althoff et al., 2019).  Previous research describes eco-labels as tools for eco-design and eco-
innovation (Prieto-Sandoval et al. 2016; Salo et al. 2020) and as a benchmark for environmental 
improvements (Bratt et al. 2011). They have a growing influence on company strategy (Prieto-
Sandoval et al. 2016) and product stewardship along the value chain. By analyzing these factors we 
can explore whether eco-labels create sustainable value when applied in the context of circular 
business models.  
This paper explores the perspectives of companies on the relationship between the use of eco-
labels and implementing circular business models. Namely, the research question addressed by the 
study is: How do Finnish textile sector companies exploit eco-labels to implement and advance 
circular business models? The rest of the paper is structured as follows: First we present the 
interview sample and interview protocol as well as an analytical method. Then we present some 
preliminary results and offer preliminary discussion items, which will be further expanded for the 
conference presentation, as the analysis advances. 
Materials and Methods 
This paper presents the findings from interviews with Finnish textile sector companies. The sample 
included companies representing different parts of the apparel value chain (fibre and fabric 
producer, manufacturers, online and physical retailers, textile service and textile recycling). Various 
types of companies were selected for interview to explore the range of different views on potential 
applications of eco-labels. Some of the interviewed companies applied circular economy principles 
in their business models or product concepts, whereas others followed mainly traditional linear 
business models (fabric manufacturer, retailer etc.). In-depth details about the companies are not 
disclosed here due to the identifiability resulting from the small market of the target geographic 
area.   
Semi-structured virtual interviews carried out with company representatives (Sept. 2021- March 
2022) covered the following themes: Business model; sustainability and circularity; consumer 
demand for sustainability information; eco-label use and added value; eco-label impacts on 
business operations in practice; managing value chain sustainability; and future needs and 
solutions. The transcribed interview data is qualitatively analyzed, with the assistance of the Nvivo 
software As suggested by thematic analysis approach, the data will be coded and organized under 
themes (Nowell et al. 2017) to understand the relationship between the business model circularity 
(Geissdoerfer et al. 2018; Bocken et al. 2016, etc. ) and their exploitation of eco-labels in companies.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
812 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Results and discussion 
This study presents perspectives of Finnish textile companies on the use of eco-labels in 
implementing circular business models and aims to understand the reasons. Although the analysis 
is ongoing, and a systematic analysis has not been made at the time of writing the abstract, some 
preliminary results can be presented. The following is a descriptive summary of preliminary results, 
which does not yet differentiate eco-label use practices in the context of different 
sustainable/circular business models.  
The interviews showed that companies exploit certifications on the sustainability of materials (e.g. 
Textile Exchange standards) to improve sustainable value chain management. Eco-labels are a 
supply chain risk management tool applied to improve transparency. GOTS for organic cotton and 
Öeko-tex standards were described as a basic characteristic of quality fabrics used by companies 
producing sustainable products. While companies did not always specifically request these 
standards, interviewees explained that quality fabrics often came with these certifications. 
The interviews showed that while certifications on materials (fabrics, threads etc.) were 
commonplace, it was scarce that companies would be eco-labelling or certifying their entire 
operations or product lines. Motivations for those that did, related to requests from clients: either 
as requirements in public procurements or from clients that were Type1 eco-labelled (Nordic Swan) 
themselves.  
It can preliminarily be summarized that the interviewees mainly identified the use of Type 1 -like 
eco-labels in the context of organic cotton and elimination of chemicals. Less commonplace is 
certifying recycled raw material. Many company representatives emphasized the quality of fabrics 
and products. However, no eco-labels or certifications there is currently no certifying applied to 
indicate overall quality, or in other words the “slowing loops” business models.  
The decisions on the uptake of eco-labels, certifications and standards related to balancing the 
added value from gained transparency, clients, or possibilities to communicate sustainability 
efforts, with the actual demand, cost and other resource needs. Further analysis will produce a 
typology of aims of eco-label use in the implementation of circular business models and explore the 
role of eco-labels in creating, delivering and capturing sustainable value.  
The results are interesting in the context of the textile sector transition to a circular economy.  
Empirical insights on the use of eco-labels as part managing sustainability of business models fills a 
research gap. However, the sample size is limited to a narrow geographic focus limits making 
generalizable conclusions. The study furthermore does not take a stand on the effectiveness of eco-
label use towards circular economy, which has been questioned in previous research (Meis-Harris 
et al., 2021). Nevertheless, the analytical approach and empirical study add to the existing literature 
that has pinpointed to the need to better understand the topic.  
Keywords  
Circular business models, eco-labels, sustainable value creation.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
813 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
References  
Althoff Palm, D., Himmelstrup Dahl, E., Holmgren, T., Moliis, S., Bigum, M. and McKinnon, D. (2019) 
Miljöpåståenden för textilier på den Nordiska marknaden. TemaNord 2019:506. ISBN: 978-92-893-
6011-1 (PDF) 
Antikainen, M., Valkokari, K., 2016. A Framework for Sustainable Circular Business Model Innovation. 
Technology Innovation Management Review 6, 5–12.. doi:10.22215/timreview/1000 
Bakker, C., Wang, F., Huisman, J., Den Hollander, M., 2014. Products that go round: exploring product life 
extension 
through 
design. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production 
69, 
10–16.. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2014.01.028 
Bratt, C., Hallstedt, S., Robèrt, K.-H., Broman, G., Oldmark, J., (2011) Assessment of eco-labelling criteria 
development from a strategic sustainability perspective. Journal of Cleaner Production. 19, 1631–
1638.. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2011.05.012 
Bocken, N.M.P., Short, S.W., Rana, P., Evans, S., (2014) A literature and practice review to develop sustainable 
business 
model 
archetypes. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
65, 
42–56. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.039 
Bocken, N.M.P. (2015) Conceptual framework for shared value creation based on value mapping, Global 
Cleaner Production Conference, Sitges, Barcelona, 1-4 November 2015. 
Bocken, N.M.P., De Pauw, I., Bakker, C., Van Der Grinten, B. (2016) Product design and business model 
strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering. 33, 308–320.. 
doi:10.1080/21681015.2016.1172124 
Bocken, N.M.P., Schuit, C.S.C., Kraaijenhagen, C., 2018. Experimenting with a circular business model: Lessons 
from 
eight 
cases. 
Environmental 
Innovation 
and 
Societal 
Transitions 
28, 
79–95.. 
doi:10.1016/j.eist.2018.02.001 
Dahlbo, H., Rautiainen, A., Savolainen, H., Oksanen, P., Nurmi, P., Virta, M., & Pokela, O. (2021) Textile flows 
in Finland 2019. Reports from Turku University of Applied Sciences 276. ISBN: 978-952-216-787-3. 
Available from: http://julkaisut.turkuamk.fi/isbn9789522167873.pdf. Acccessed 30.8.2021 
Das, A., Konietzko, J., Bocken, N., (2022) How do companies measure and forecast environmental impacts 
when experimenting with circular business models?. Sustainable Production and Consumption 29, 
273–285.. doi:10.1016/j.spc.2021.10.009 
Dentchev, N., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, R., Nyberg, T., Tang, X., Van 
Hoof, B., Jonker, J., 2018. Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field of 
research and a future research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production 194, 695–703.. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.05.156 
European Commission (2022) Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, 
the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. EU Strategy for 
Sustainable and Circular Textles. COM (2022) 141 final. 2 
Geissdoerfer, M., Morioka, S.N., De Carvalho, M.M., Evans, S. (2018) Business models and supply chains for 
the 
circular 
economy. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
190, 
712–721.. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.04.159 
Kraaijenhagen, C., Van Oppen, C., Bocken, N., 2016. Circular Business Collaborate and Circulate. Circular 
Collaboration. Amersfoort, The Netherlands. Available at circularcollaboration.com. 
Manninen, K., Koskela, S., Antikainen, R., Bocken, N., Dahlbo, H., Aminoff, A. (2018) Do circular economy 
business models capture intended environmental value propositions?. Journal of Cleaner Production 
171, 413–422.. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.10.003 
Marrucci, L., Daddi, T., Iraldo, F. (2019) The integration of circular economy with sustainable consumption 
and production tools: Systematic review and future research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production 
.240, 118268.. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.118268 
MCL Global. (2022) A Guide to Environmental & Social Compliance Textile Standards and Legislation. Available 
from: ww.textilestandards.com [Accessed 26th January 2022] 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
814 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Meis-Harris, J., Klemm, C., Kaufman, S., Curtis, J., Borg, K., Bragge, P. (2021) What is the role of eco-labels for 
a circular economy? A rapid review of the literature. Journal of Cleaner Production. 306, 127134.. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.127134  
Niinimäki, K., Peters, G., Dahlbo, H., Perry, P., Rissanen, T., Gwilt, A. (2020) The environmental price of fast 
fashion. Nature Reviews Earth & Environment. 189-200. doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/s43017-020-
0039-9 
Nowell, L.S., Norris, J.M., White, D.E., Moules, N.J. (2017) Thematic Analysis. International Journal of 
Qualitative Methods. 16, 160940691773384.. doi:10.1177/1609406917733847 
Nußholz, J., 2017. Circular Business Models: Defining a Concept and Framing an Emerging Research Field. 
Sustainability 9, 1810.. doi:10.3390/su9101810 
Pal, R., Gander, J. (2018) Modelling environmental value: An examination of sustainable business models 
within 
the 
fashion 
industry. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
184, 
251–263.. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.02.001 
Pedersen, E.R.G., Gwozdz, W., Hvass, K.K. (2018) Exploring the Relationship Between Business Model 
Innovation, Corporate Sustainability, and Organisational Values within the Fashion Industry. Journal 
of Business Ethics. 149, 267–284.. doi:10.1007/s10551-016-3044-7 
Prieto-Sandoval, V., Alfaro, J.A., Mejía-Villa, A., Ormazabal, M. (2016) ECO-labels as a multidimensional 
research topic: Trends and opportunities. Journal of Cleaner Production. 135, 806–818.. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.06.167 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G., Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability. Organization & 
Environment 29, 3–10.. doi:10.1177/1086026615599806  
Salo, H.H., Suikkanen, J., Nissinen, A. (2020) Eco‐innovation motivations and ecodesign tool implementation 
in companies in the Nordic textile and information technology sectors. Business Strategy and the 
Environment 29, 2654–2667. doi:10.1002/bse.2527 
Virta, L., Räisänen, R. (2021) Three Futures Scenarios of Policy Instruments for Sustainable Textile Production 
and Consumption as Portrayed in the Finnish News Media. Sustainability.13, 594.. 
doi:10.3390/su13020594 
Watson, K.J., Wiedemann, S.G. (2019) Review of Methodological Choices in LCA-Based Textile and Apparel 
Rating Tools: Key Issues and Recommendations Relating to Assessment of Fabrics Made From 
Natural Fibre Types. Sustainability 11, 3846.. doi:10.3390/su11143846 
Yokessa, M., Marette, S., (2019) A Review of Eco-labels and their Economic Impact. International Review of 
Environmental and Resource Economics 13, 119–163.. doi:10.1561/101.00000107 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
815 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Linking Doughnut Economics and  
Sustainable Business Model 
Research 
 
Jana-Michaela Timm1, Michaela Hausdorf1,* 
1Hamburg University 
*michaela.hausdorf@uni-hamburg.de 
Extended Abstract 
Research on sustainable business models (SBM) is a young and dynamic stream of research that is 
essential for exploring how companies propose, create, deliver and capture value (Bocken et al., 
2014; Lüdeke-Freund & Dembek, 2017; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018; Stubbs & Cocklin, 2008). 
Recently, scholarly interest has moved towards the question of how SBM fosters broader 
sustainability transitions and, in turn, how such transitions spawn novel SBM (Aagaard et al., 2021; 
Proka, Beers & Loorbach, 2018). Scholars refer to this field of research as ‘business models for 
sustainability transitions’ and understand ‘sustainability transitions’ as “fundamental change at a 
societal level” (Aagaard et al., 2021, p.2). This is particularly important in face of worldwide social-
ecological challenges like climate change or environmental degradation.  
Such societal challenges in rapidly changing environments make traditional approaches to solving 
problems ineffective (Casarejos et al., 2018; Ramos et al., 2020). Scholars stress the need to develop 
new ways of thinking to design sustainable business models that profoundly foster broader 
sustainability transitions (Aagaard et al., 2021; Madsen, 2020; Shakeel et al., 2020). Such a new way 
of economic thinking has been proposed by Doughnut Economics (Raworth, 2017). This novel 
concept holistically considers planetary boundaries and social needs as the basis for economic and 
social activities, as the British economist Kate Raworth developed DE in response to current societal 
challenges. She argues that DE is an economic mindset suitable to tackle 21st-century challenges. 
The concept comprises seven principles: ‘change the goal’, ‘see the big picture’, ‘nurture human 
nature’, get savvy with systems’, ‘design to distribute’, ‘create to regenerate’ and ‘be agnostic about 
growth’ (Raworth, 2017).  
We argue that merging SBM and DE may be vital to comprehensively push forward business model 
innovation for sustainability transitions. The seven principles of DE foster innovative SBM that move 
beyond environmentally friendly production and eco-efficiency towards acting within planetary 
boundaries and considering social needs. Moreover, applying DE to business models and SBM 
research fundamentally questions the current understanding of growth and bears the potential to 
transform the way businesses manage resources and their distribution. In turn, DE might profit from 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
816 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
SBM research as the latter provides the degree of details required to describe crucial design issues 
necessary to implement DE. In doing so, SBM research might help DE overcome the pitfall of 
‘cockpit-ism’, that is, the idea that top-down actions alone can solve worldwide challenges (Hajer 
et al., 2015). Our study of the state of research shows neither explicit research at the intersection 
of DE and SBM, nor a conceptual link between the two concepts. Nevertheless, we assume that 
SBM research has implicitly applied some of the principles of DE in their conceptual understandings 
and research. This article lays the foundation for explicitly linking SBM research and DE.  
We analyse whether and how SBM research has implicitly applied DE principles by conducting a 
systematic literature review as presented by Tranfield and colleagues (2003). The literature review 
encompasses the three stages ‘planning the review’, ‘conducting the review’ and ‘reporting and 
dissemination’. Within this first stage, we identified the need for a review at the intersection of 
SBM and DE research as outlined in the previous parts. Building on that, we developed a review 
protocol containing information on the research question, sample, search strategy and criteria for 
inclusion and exclusion of articles. In the second stage, ‘conducting the review’, we identified 
relevant SBM literature by searching for the terms ‘sustain*’ AND ‘business model’ in the topic OR 
abstract OR keywords in the database Business Source Complete (via EBSCO Host). This led to 3,043 
results in total. Thereof we identified 2,139 journal articles. We filtered for English journal articles 
and screened the remaining 2,062 articles by checking whether the business model concept 
constituted a core issue. Moreover, we checked the understanding of sustainability applied in the 
articles. We excluded articles if they only referred to economic sustainability. Our screening led to 
the exclusion of 1,562 articles, resulting in a sample of 500 articles. As we aimed at analysing the 
articles with the most significant impact among SBM research, we intentionally reduced the 
number of articles. To do so, we first sorted our list of 500 papers by the number of citations. Then 
we identified ‘key authors’ among our sample, i.e. authors with more than five publications. Finally, 
we selected those publications by key authors that were among the 100 most cited ones. As more 
novel publications are typically not among the most cited ones, our sample would have lacked 
those. Hence, we repeated the process explained above for the SBM literature of 2020 and 2021. 
In line with sample sizes of comparable literature reviews (see, for example, Araújo and Franco, 
2021; Bouzzine, 2021), our final sample consisted of 40 most cited articles by key authors from SBM 
research published between 2005 and 2021. As we intended to merge DE and SBM research, we 
used the seven principles of Raworth’s book Doughnut Economics (2017) as our analytical 
framework. After completing stage two - conducting the review - we carried out stage three, 
‘reporting and dissemination’. Based on the insights gained from the literature review, this research 
paper puts forward our findings.  
Our findings show that all principles have been implicitly applied to varying degrees in SBM 
research. However, none of the principles has been implicitly applied in all articles. The principles 
‘create to regenerate’ and ‘change the goal’ have been integrated by nearly all publications in our 
sample. However, we identified potential for a more explicit application of this principle, as only 
about a quarter of the articles in our sample mentioned regenerativeness as a normative 
requirement on SBMs. Similarly, the principle ‘change the goal’ bears the opportunity for a more 
in-depth application, as nearly all articles built their argumentation on rather broad categories of 
goals. The principles ‘get savvy with systems’ and ‘see the big picture’ have been normatively 
addressed by more than half of the articles in our sample. Yet, considerably fewer articles dealt 
with more concrete processual or architectural paths integrating these principles in SBM research. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
817 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
We identified the greatest potential for a more in-depth application of the principles ‘design to 
distribute’, ‘nurture human nature’, and ‘be agnostic about growth’ in SBM research. These 
principles were normatively, processual and architecturally addressed to the least extent.  
Based on our findings, we suggest seven avenues that inspire future SBM research to integrate the 
principles of DE holistically. These avenues might broaden scholarly horizons and foster SBM 
innovation. If we, as SBM researchers, take these avenues seriously and gradually integrate DE 
principles into SBM research explicitly, there might be considerable potential to fundamentally 
transform basic business assumptions. For example, integrating the principle ‘nurture human 
nature’ into SBM research might not only foster a new narrative of social and cooperative human 
behaviour. It might also inspire business model innovation for sustainability and initiate a revision 
of SBM theories. This may lay the ground for SBM research to increase business’ impact towards 
societal sustainability transitions. 
Keywords 
Doughnut Economics, ecological economics, business model innovation, business models for 
sustainability transitions 
References  
Aagaard, A., Lüdeke-Freund F. & Peter Wells, P. (2021) Business models for sustainability transitions: How 
organisations contribute to societal transformation. London, Palgrave Macmillan. 
Araújo, R., & Franco, M. (2021) The use of collaboration networks in search of eco-innovation: A systematic 
literature review. Journal of Cleaner Production. 314, 127975. 
Bocken, N. M., & Short, S. W. (2021) Unsustainable business models – recognising and resolving 
institutionalised social and environmental harm. Journal of Cleaner Production. 312, 127828. 
Bocken, N. M., Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice review to develop sustainable 
business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner production. 65, 42-56. 
Bouzzine, Y. D. (2021) Stock price reactions to environmental pollution events: A systematic literature review 
of direct and indirect effects and a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production. 316, 128305. 
Casarejos, F., Bastos, C. R., Rufin, C., & Frota, M. N. (2018) Rethinking packaging production and consumption 
vis-à-vis circular economy: A case study of compostable cassava starch-based material. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 201, 1019-1028. 
Hajer, M., Nilsson, M., Raworth, K., Bakker, P., Berkhout, F., De Boer, Y., Rockström, J., Ludwig, K. & Kok, M. 
(2015) Beyond cockpit-ism: Four insights to enhance the transformative potential of the sustainable 
development goals. Sustainability. 7 (2), 1651-1660. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L., & Breuer, H. (2018) The sustainable business model 
pattern taxonomy - 
45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model 
innovation. Sustainable Production and Consumption. 15, 145-162. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Dembek, K. (2017) Sustainable business model research and practice: Emerging field or 
passing fancy?. Journal of Cleaner Production.  168, 1668-1678. 
Madsen, H. L. (2020) Business model innovation and the global ecosystem for sustainable development. 
Journal of Cleaner Production. 247, 119102. 
Proka, A., Beers, P. J., & Loorbach, D. (2018) Transformative business models for sustainability transitions. 
In: Sustainable business models. Springer. Cham, pp. 19-39. 
Ramos, T. B., Caeiro, S., Disterheft, A., Mascarenhas, A., Deutz, P., Spangenberg, J. H., Montaño, M., Olayide, 
O. & Sohal, A. (2020) Rethinking sustainability: Questioning old perspectives and developing new 
ones. Journal of Cleaner Production.  258, 120769. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
818 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Raworth, K. (2017) Doughnut Economics: seven ways to think like a 21st-century economist. Vermont, Chelsea 
Green Publishing.  
Shakeel, J., Mardani, A., Chofreh, A. G., Goni, F. A., & Klemeš, J. J. (2020) Anatomy of sustainable business 
model innovation. Journal of Cleaner Production.  261, 121201. 
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008) Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”. Organization & 
environment. 21 (2), 103-127. 
Tranfield, D., Denyer, D., & Smart, P. (2003) Towards a methodology for developing evidence‐informed 
management knowledge by means of systematic review. British journal of management. 14, 3, 207-
222.  
   

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
819 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Table 8 Identified paths how SBM research has integrated DE principles 
 
 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
Baldassarre et al. (2017)
Baldassarre et al. (2020)
Bocken et al. (2013)
Bocken et al. (2015)
Bocken et al. (2016)
Bocken et al. (2018)
Bocken & Geradts (2020)
Bocken & Short (2016)
Bohnsack et al. (2014)
Boons & Lüdeke-Freund (2013)
Carayannis et al. (2015)
Christensen et al. (2012)
Curtis & Mont (2020)
Di Vaio et al. (2020)
Dreyer et al. (2017)
Evans et al. (2017) 
Ferasso et al. (2020)
Freudenreich et al. (2020)
Gall et al. (2020) 
Gao & Li (2020)
Geissdoerfer et al. (2016)
Geissdoerfer et al. (2018)
Henry et al. (2020)
Kurucz et al. (2017)
Luedeke-Freund et al. (2018)
Luedeke-Freund & Dembek (2017)
Manninen et al. (2018)
Pedersen & Netter (2015)
Ritala et al. (2018)
Schaltegger et al (2012)
Schaltegger et al. (2016)
Stubbs & Cocklin (2008)
Todeschini et al. (2017)
Tunn et al. (2019)
Urbinati et al. (2017)
Vasileiadou et al. (2016)
Velter et al. (2020)
Wells & Seitz (2005) 
Yang et al. (2017)
Yip & Bocken (2018)
1. Change the goal 
1.1 environmental, social and economic goals as normative requirements 
on SBM 
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
1.2 SBM tools and frameworks encompassing environmental, social and 
economic goals
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
1.3 SBM performance measurement and reporting of environmental, social 
and economic goals
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
2. See the big picture
2.1  stakeholder perspective as a normative requirement on SBM
  
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
2.2 multi-dimensional flows between a focal SBM and its stakeholders
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
2.3 analysing the business environment as part of SBM  
✓
✓
✓
✓
3. Nurture human nature
3.1 cooperative, social view of human nature as a normative requirement 
on SBM   
✓
✓
✓
✓
3.2 trustful relationships in SBM 
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
3.3 relational SBM leadership practices and capabilities in SBM 
✓
✓
✓
4. Get savvy with systems 
4.1 embeddedness in a wider system as normative requirement on SBM
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
4.2 systemic SBMs modelling  
  
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
4.3 systemic SBM evolution 
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
5. Design to distribute
5.1 distributism as normative requirements on SBM
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
5.2 distributive financial SBM mechanisms
✓
✓
5.3 stable SBM networks  
✓
6. Create to regenerate
6.1 regenerativeness as normative requirements on SBM 
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
6.2 sharing and collaborative SBM
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
6.3 circular economy, closed loop and life cycle thinking in SBM 
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
6.4 sustainable resources or renewable energy in SBM
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
6.5 product-service SBMs
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
6.6 ‘sufficiency’ SBM
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
7. Be agnostic about growth
7.1 growth agnosticism as normative requirement on SBM 
✓
✓
7.2 sufficiency SBM
✓
✓
✓
Identified paths how SBM research has integrated DE principles 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
820 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Prosperity or Peril? Consumer 
Adoption of PSS Business Models 
and Influence on Sustainability 
 
Katherine A. Whalen1,*, Steven Sarasini1, Nancy Bocken2 
1RISE Research Institutes of Sweden; 2Maastricht University 
*katherine.whalen@ri.se  
Extended abstract 
New business models are increasingly billed as a means to shift production and consumption onto 
more sustainable paths (Dentchev et al., 2018). In recent years, an entire field of research has 
emerged under the rubric of “business models for sustainability” (Schaltegger, Hansen & Lüdeke-
Freund, 2016). Within this field, business models have been denoted as, among other things, key 
mechanisms for the diffusion of sustainable energy technologies (Jolly, Raven & Romijn, 2012), 
electric vehicles (Budde Christensen, Wells & Cipcigan, 2012), and for the realisation of a circular 
economy (Linder & Williander, 2015). In particular, business models that centre on servitised 
product offers (product-service systems, or PSS) are seen as an opportunity to reshape production 
and consumption processes, with the potential for significant gains in resource productivity 
(Tukker, 2013). While a multitude of existing studies outline principles, typologies, archetypes, and 
patterns associated with business models for sustainability (Bocken et al., 2014; Lüdeke-Freund et 
al., 2018) three broad archetypes are specifically associated with PSS – use, access, and result-
oriented models – and are each depicted as a means to promote sustainability (Tukker, 2004).  
Environmental impacts of PSS are influenced by how such patterns are deployed in practice. When 
designed in the right way, PSS can lead to environmental impact improvements (materials, energy, 
CO2) of up to 90% compared to ‘just selling a product’ (Tukker, 2004). However, no studies so far 
have been identified that come close to evidencing these figures. Moreover, research suggests that 
consumer interaction with the PSS determines the actual positive and negative impact of PSS (Mont 
&Tukker, 2006; Mont, 2002). For example, previous studies have shown that life-cycle impacts are 
significantly influenced by the behaviour of consumers of product-services (Verboven & Vanherck, 
2016). Therefore, one key aspect to assessing these business models’ resulting environmental 
impacts is to understand how user behaviour is influenced for each PSS type. 
Better understanding of PSS-consumer interactions could help drive sustainable behaviour in PSS 
models. Previous research suggests PSS should ideally be developed via close interactions with 
consumers according to user-centred design approaches such as the lean start-up methodology 
(Blank & Dorf, 2012). However, there is a lack of knowledge regarding customer needs and 
preferences in the PSS field (Viciunaite & Alfnes, 2020). The omission of consumers within PSS 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
821 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
research is also evident in a paucity of studies that examine sustainability impacts using multiple 
perspectives. That is, despite several case studies that present environmental impact analyses for 
various scenarios at a product level e.g. (Lindahl, Sundin & Östlin, 2006), few studies consider the 
actual impacts of business models. Moreover, it is possible that when the impact of a business 
model is considered at a systems-level, reduced consumption is not achieved due to rebound 
effects (Zink & Geyer, 2017). One way to resolve these issues is to bring consumers into focus 
through studies that examine how the development of PSS encompasses user-centric design and 
investigate consumer behaviour.   
Social practice theory offers a possible lens to explore consumer behaviour in PSS. Used within the 
field of transition studies to explore elements of sociotechnical change (Shove & Walker, 2010), 
social practices are defined as ‘patterns of doing’ that transcend individual habits and routines; 
social practice theory depicts individuals as ‘carriers’ (Reckwitz, 2002) or ‘practitioners’ (Shove & 
Watson, 2005). As ‘practitioners’, individuals are key to the stability and enduring character of 
practices, whose pattern-like quality is a manifestation of the sustained reproduction of individual 
performances, ‘incidences of doing’ (Watson, 2012) or ‘enactments’ of a practice (Shove, Pantzer 
& Watson, 2012). Hence social practice theory can also serve to elucidate why behavioural change 
among customers and users is a challenging task. Recently, scholars have begun conceptually 
exploring how to synthesis insights from literature on business models with social practice theory, 
claiming that business model innovation can bring about changes to user practices (Kemp, Loorbach 
& Rotmans, 2007). Presently there is a lack of empirical research to validate or falsify these claims.  
The deployment of a practice perspective to investigate the way in which PSS are deployed and 
used among individual consumers can illustrate aspects that are commonly overlooked in 
traditional life-cycle assessments of products more generally and product-services in particular. 
From a practice perspective, consumers that utilise product-services are the main unit of enquiry, 
along with patterns of use and how these intertwine with various aspects of daily life. This type of 
qualitative understanding is typically absent from quantitative assessments and can elucidate how 
consumers actually use, experience, and adapt to product-services, especially in contexts where 
reconfigurations of more traditional product ownership logics are required. By examining the 
interplay between different types of user practice (e.g., commuting, grocery shopping, leisure 
activities), this approach can illustrate pain points and rebound effects that may result as 
consumers transition to product-services. This type of knowledge can generate insights into service 
design and guide quantitative environmental assessments via qualitative reasoning. 
Our research therefore examines how PSS can compel consumers to adopt consumption patterns 
that promote resource efficiency and the reduction of climatic impacts by merging perspectives on 
business models and social practice theory. The interplay between users of product-services, 
environmental impacts, and activities related to business model innovation are analysed through a 
review of empirical PSS cases selected from four manufacturing sectors that produce consumables 
in the B2C segment (furniture, textiles, mobility and energy-using appliances). This focus was 
selected due to high environmental impacts that are a direct result of resource-intensive modes of 
production and consumption within the EU (Tukker et al., 2016).  
By generating knowledge on the dynamics between new PSS business model development, 
environmental impacts, and user practices, our research is expected to be relevant for the design, 
assessment, and implementation of sustainable business models. The findings suggest that the 
environmental impacts of PSS business models are strongly related to the uptake and use of these 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
822 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
models. Gaps in existing empirical knowledge are highlighted and an agenda for future research is 
presented, including a reflection on the suitability of using social practice theory to study business 
models’ abilities to change user practices. 
Graphical abstract 
 
Keywords  
Product-service-system, sustainable business model, business model innovation, consumer 
behavior, social practice theory 
References  
Budde Christensen, T., Wells, P. & Cipcigan, L. (2012) Can innovative business models overcome resistance to 
electric vehicles? Better Place and battery electric cars in Denmark. Energy Policy. 48, 498–505. 
doi:10.1016/j.enpol.2012.05.054. 
Dentchev, N., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, R., Nyberg, T., Tang, X., van 
Hoof, B. & Jonker, J. (2018) Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field of 
research and a future research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production. 194, 695–703. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.05.156. 
Jolly, S., Raven, R. & Romijn, H. (2012) Upscaling of business model experiments in off-grid PV solar energy in 
India. Sustainability Science. 7 (2), 199–212. doi:10.1007/s11625-012-0163-7. 
Kemp, R., Loorbach, D. & Rotmans, J. (2007) Transition management as a model for managing processes of 
co-evolution towards sustainable development. International Journal of Sustainable Development & 
World Ecology. 14 (1), 78–91. doi:10.1080/13504500709469709. 
Linder, M. & Williander, M. (2017) Circular Business Model Innovation: Inherent Uncertainties. Business 
Strategy and the Environment. 26 (2), 182–196. doi:10.1002/bse.1906. 
Environmental
impacts
Consumer 
behaviour
Social practice
theory
TRANSITIONS TO PSS 
BUSINESS MODELS
For these models, what is the 
interplay between environmental 
impacts, consumer behaviour, 
and new business 
model development?

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
823 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L. & Breuer, H. (2018) The sustainable business model pattern 
taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable 
Production and Consumption. 15, 145–162. doi:10.1016/j.spc.2018.06.004. 
Mont, O. & Tukker, A. (2006) Product-Service Systems: reviewing achievements and refining the research 
agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production. 14 (17), 1451–1454. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2006.01.017. 
Mont, O.K. (2002) Clarifying the concept of product–service system. Journal of Cleaner Production. 10 (3), 
237–245. doi:10.1016/S0959-6526(01)00039-7. 
Reckwitz, A. (2002) Toward a Theory of Social Practices: A Development in Culturalist Theorizing. European 
Journal of Social Theory. 5 (2), 243–263. doi:10.1177/13684310222225432. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, Present 
Research, 
and 
Future 
Avenues. 
Organization 
& 
Environment. 
29 
(1), 
3–10. 
doi:10.1177/1086026615599806. 
Shove, E. & Pantzar, M. (2005) Consumers, Producers and Practices: Understanding the invention and 
reinvention 
of 
Nordic 
walking. 
Journal 
of 
Consumer 
Culture. 
5 
(1), 
43–64. 
doi:10.1177/1469540505049846. 
Shove, E., Pantzar, M. & Watson, M. (2012) The Dynamics of Social Practice: Everyday Life and How it Changes. 
London. doi:10.4135/9781446250655. 
Shove, E. & Walker, G. (2010) Governing transitions in the sustainability of everyday life. Research Policy. 39 
(4), 471–476. doi:10.1016/j.respol.2010.01.019. 
Tukker, A. (2004) Eight types of product–service system: eight ways to sustainability? Experiences from 
SusProNet. Business Strategy and the Environment. 13 (4), 246–260. doi:10.1002/bse.414. 
Tukker, A. (2015) Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy – a review. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 97, 76–91. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.049. 
Tukker, A., Bulavskaya, T., Giljum, S., de Koning, A., Lutter, S., Simas, M., Stadler, K. & Wood, R. (2016) 
Environmental and resource footprints in a global context: Europe’s structural deficit in resource 
endowments. Global Environmental Change. 40, 171–181. doi:10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2016.07.002. 
Verboven, H. & Vanherck, L. (2016) The sustainability paradox of the sharing economy. uwf 
UmweltWirtschaftsForum. 24 (4), 303–314. doi:10.1007/s00550-016-0410-y. 
Watson, M. (2012) How theories of practice can inform transition to a decarbonised transport system. Journal 
of Transport Geography. 24, 488–496. doi:10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2012.04.002. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
824 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 3.2 - New Business Models in Times of 
Crisis 
Track chairs: Urtzi Uribetxebarria Andres Dorleta 
Ibarra Zuluaga, Leire Markuerkiaga Arritola 
(Mondragon University) 
 
Crises are source of profound human loss, tragedy and agony and as such they give rise to 
events that pose threats to organizations. In this context, resilient structures (sectoral, 
organizational, group) based on new frameworks, fostering multi-stakeholder cooperation 
and innovative capacity, might become a sustainable competitive advantage.  
Thus, this track welcomes studies on new business models or sustainable business practices 
in time of crisis which reveal different practices to ensure resilience on multiple levels (e.g. 
individual level employee well-being, team level innovation absorption capacity, 
organizational level social responsibility, firm level financial performance). 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
825 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Innovative business model 
implementing Value-Based 
Healthcare  
The case of Medtronic Core Clinical Solutions (MC2) 
Study & Scientific Solutions 
Martina Toni1,*, Luca Bartolini2, Francesco De Seta3, Nicoletta 
Grovale4, Giovanni Mattia5,Carlo Alberto Pratesi6. 
1Department of Business Studies - University of Roma Tre & Medtronic 
Core Clinical Solutions (MC2) Study & Scientific Solutions (S&SS); 
2Medtronic Core Clinical Solutions (MC2) Study & Scientific Solutions 
(S&SS); 3Department of Business Studies - University of Roma Tre 
*martina.toni@uniroma3.it 
Abstract 
The pressure on the health system due to the pandemic situation has enhanced the main 
criticalities of healthcare sector. In this complex system, value transformation is pivotal for creating 
a sustainable framework built around the patients’ needs. This research aims at analysing how an 
innovative business model is pursuing a patient-centric approach implementing the Value-Based 
Healthcare model. 
Keywords  
Innovative business model; Value-Based Healthcare; Patient-centricity; Service innovation; Value 
transformation 
Introduction 
The pressure on the health system due to the pandemic situation has enhanced its main criticalities.  
Healthcare sector worldwide is facing common challenges due to rising demand and increasing 
financial restrictions which encourage to increase cost-efficiency while offering broader service 
(Pereno and Eriksson, 2020). 
The COVID-19 pandemic has transformed everyday life with impacts on the personal and 
professional sides. In time of crisis organizations cannot operate as they did so far since users’ 
interactions with services adapted to the new scenario (Am et al., 2020). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
826 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
In order to ensure sustainability, it is relevant understanding how the healthcare system can react 
to this time of crisis. The actual scenario is characterized by a growing demand of health services 
due to the extension of life expectancy and the increase in chronic diseases. The marked 
fragmentation among system, the lack of interconnections and networks, the limited resources and 
the necessity to minimize costs pave the way for opportunities in order to improve the system from 
a multidisciplinary perspective. There is a need of rethinking the health system’s management and 
monitoring in order to achieve sustainability reconciling the growing demand with the available 
resources in a system affected by fragmentation. On this purpose innovative business models are 
proposing solutions in order to contribute to healthcare sustainability. Indeed, digital 
transformation not only refers to the improvement of technologies related to existing process and 
service, but it is also related to new business models (Liu et al., 2022). 
 
In healthcare one crucial aspect is the pursuit of patient-centricity and Value-Based Healthcare 
(VBHC) (Porter, 2013) that is based on value/outcome rather than volume/performance. This 
approach focuses on maximizing value for patients, aiming at optimizing outcomes and minimizing 
costs. Healthcare organizations serve six distinct purposes: treatment, diagnosis, prevention, 
education, research and outreach. In serving these purposes, healthcare organizations have to 
effectively manage quality, costs, safety, efficiency and outcomes; moreover, they have to balance 
the needs of several actors such as patients, healthcare practitioners and providers who deliver 
care. In this complex system is crucial overcoming the silos structure, building a network around 
the patients’ needs and the related outcomes. Patient-centricity is defined as ‘putting the patient 
first in an open and sustained engagement of the patient to respectfully and compassionately 
achieve the best experience and outcome for that person and their family’ (Yeoman et al., 2017). 
This change implies the shift from a healthcare system organized around physicians role (supply-
driven), towards a patient-centered system organized around patients’ needs (Lee & Porter, 2013), 
moving the focus from the volume/profitability of services provided to the patient outcomes 
achieved.  
 
Innovative solutions for managing these issues are arising. However, it has to be noted that from 
the patient perspective, providing innovative health service does not only imply new treatment and 
medicines, but also new way in delivering care or improving quality of life. Hence, in order to 
achieve patient-centricity also innovation has to go beyond firm-centered vision generating new 
knowledge and practical solutions (Lusch & Nambisan 2015; Vargo, Wieland & Akaka 2015).  
This research aims at analysing the VBHC and patient-centricity implementation illustrating the case 
of an internal provider of clinical and scientific services for Medtronic worldwide: Medtronic Core 
Clinical Solutions (MC2) Study & Scientific Solutions (S&SS) organization with a specific focus on 
LeanScientia service. 
Theory 
Service Innovation in healthcare sector 
Innovation is crucial in healthcare sector for managing the complexity of the context in terms of 
fragmentation. Opportunities for innovative business model are emerging in order to fill the 
existing gaps.  
The COVID-19 pandemic has caused huge disruptions to the healthcare sector, with marked impacts 
on businesses and society (Liu et al., 2022). In time of crisis technological innovation and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
827 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
collaboration are at the center of interest (Hou and Shi, 2021; Shi et al., 2021). Innovation strategies, 
shared efforts and collaborative approaches are essential in crisis for resilience, in order to 
guarantee real-time decision making and business continuity (Vermicelli et al., 2020; Verma et al., 
2020; Bem et al., 2019) 
In time of crisis organizations have to react rapidly to challenges (Verma et al., 2020) and to 
accommodate new needs considering existing and emerging barriers. Hence business models have 
to adapt to new market conditions (Am et al., 2020). New business models have to face the 
multifaceted concept of innovation in healthcare, in which proposing only a new offering is not 
enough; indeed, innovation should include an improvement of customer value cocreation 
(Rubalcaba et al., 2012), beyond traditional output and process-based archetypes to a more 
experiential/systemic understanding of value creation (Karpen, Bove & Lukas, 2012; Prahalad & 
Ramaswamy, 2003). The systemic archetype is particularly suitable for healthcare system because 
it embeds a holistic approach based on the assumption that ‘the whole is more than the sum of the 
parts’ (Sheth, Gardner & Garrett, 1988). Different existing actors integrate resources and 
organizations need to connect with multiple actors to sustain the network (Helkkula, Kowalkowski 
& Tronvoll, 2018). The definition of service ecosystem can be particularly suitable in describing 
healthcare context: it is a “relatively self-contained, self-adjusting system of resource-integrating 
actors connected by shared institutional logics and mutual value creation through service 
exchange” (Lusch & Vargo, 2014). A service ecosystem has a twofold role: enabling value cocreation 
and fostering service innovation (Edvardsson & Tronvoll, 2013). By merging these two concepts, 
instead of focusing on processes, innovation in healthcare should be directed towards creating as 
much value as possible for the patient in relation to cost (Porter & Teisberg, 2006; Lee & Porter, 
2013). The overall aim is to develop high quality healthcare, reduce patients’ suffering, improve 
patient safety and achieve better cost-effectiveness (Porter & Teisberg, 2006). Pursuing this 
transformation is an overarching strategy that will require restructuring how healthcare delivery is 
organized and measured.  
Value-Based Healthcare 
The Value Agenda enlightens the potential ways to address the transformation of healthcare 
system. Porter and Teisberg (2006) introduce the ‘value agenda’ in which they state that ‘achieving 
high value for patients became the overarching goal of healthcare delivery’. The authors present 
also the concept of VBHC and the related multifaceted definition of value: from accountability 
perspective value is defined as the health outcomes achieved per dollar spent; from a managerial 
perspective it concerns processes and organization changes. Teisberg, Wallace and O’Hara (2020) 
define a framework to guide organizations in building VBHC systems. This transformation requires 
several steps that are described following. 
1. Understand shared health needs of patients: healthcare should be organized around 
segments of patients with a shared set of health (clinical needs and nonclinical) needs and 
with a particular medical condition. In this way, care shifts from treating to solving patients’ 
needs. It allows to meet and anticipate patient needs in an effectient way. 
2. Design a comprehensive solution to improve health outcomes: on the basis of the previous 
step, teams design and deliver care consistently. Optimizing care by providing health 
services in an integrated way, overcoming fragmentation and duplication of care. Patient 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
828 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
care needs to be integrated managing the full care cycle and removing obstacles that 
undermine patients’ health. 
 
3. Integrate learning teams: this new approach changes the way clinicians are organized to 
deliver care, moving from silos organization to a different structure based on patient’s 
medical condition. In these integrated structures there is a multidisciplinary (clinical and 
non clinical) team that manage the entire pathway. 
4. Measure health outcomes and costs: outcome should track the patient status/progress and 
cover the entire care cycle. It is possible to divide the outcome in clinical outcome 
(evaluating whether the therapies are consistent with the expectations) and functional 
outcome related to quality of life (informing about the patient functional ability after the 
treatment). 
 
5. Expand partnerships: Partnerships can create opportunities for integrating patient care 
needs across locations and sites with the shared goals of creating high value and achieving 
better health outcomes. This action should be focused on improving value rather than only 
volume. Two potential mode of geographical expansion is the Hub&Spoke (with satellite 
facilities established for each integrated unit) and the clinical affiliation (sharing the 
facilities of community providers). 
Porter and Teisberg (2006) state that building and enabling an effective information technology 
platform is necessary for pursuing VBHC. An integrated IT system allows the achievement of the 
previous five dimensions, by allowing the tracking of the entire care cycle, the sharing of 
information and communication across facilities and locations. An IT platform needs to be centred 
on patients, to manage and record different type of data, to be easily accessible and 
comprehensible to all stakeholders involved. The infrastructure has to be rearranged in order to 
follow the patient journey (patient pathway) across services, departments and facilities.  
By merging the contribution of Teisberg, Wallace and O’Hara (2020) with the one of Porter and 
Teisberg (2006), the figure below illustrates the strategic framework for VBHC implementation. 
Figure 1. Strategic framework for Value-Based Healthcare implementation 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
829 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
Van der Nat (2021) observes some best practices, noticing that healthcare providers that adopt the 
principles of VBHC, are implementing one or some of these dimensions. Thus, opportunity to 
accomplish the transformation from volume to value is reinforced if multiple dimensions are 
simultaneously implemented.  
Methodology 
This research aims at analysing the implementation of VBHC framework in an international 
healthcare organization. On this purpose this study is part of a research project developed in 
cooperation between the Department of Business Studies (University of Roma Tre) and Medtronic 
Core Clinical Solutions (MC2) Study & Scientific Solutions (S&SS), with the aim to apply the VBHC 
conceptual framework. The choice of this healthcare organization is due to the fact that Medtronic 
Core Clinical Solutions (MC2) Study & Scientific Solutions is an international well-known healthcare 
organization characterized by flexibility and adaptation on the basis of context and stakeholders’ 
needs. S&SS offers a full range of services grouped into: “Scientific Solution” and “Study Solutions”. 
This research focuses on Scientific Solutions, and particularly on one specific scientific service that 
is comprises in the Scientific Solutions for Hospitals (SS4H) macro-area: LeanScientia Service (LSS). 
LeanScientia is particularly suitable for this objective because it is brand agnostic and it is applicable 
to all Medtronic and non-Medtronic therapies. Furthermore, it is a transversal service, allowing a 
deep understanding of the VBHC application.    
In order to achieve our objectives, two different sources of data have been integrated: interviews 
and secondary data with the twofold scope of deepening the general knowledge and understanding 
how the organization is embracing a VBHC vision. Managers and employees, responsible of the 
specific LeanScientia service, have been interviewed and the information extracted have been 
integrated with insights from documents and archival sources. The data has been analysed and the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
830 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
information extracted allow to link each activity of LeanScientia past, current and future projects 
to the related VBHC dimensions. Data have been analysed through content analysis with the four 
phases of coding, categorizing, thematizing and integrating (Mayan, 2009; Thompson, 1997). The 
content analysis is a research method with the purpose of providing knowledge, new insights, a 
representation of facts and a practical guide to action (Krippendorff, 1980). Data analysis facilitates 
the description of how S&SS contribute to each aspect of VBHC through LeanScientia and future 
potential evolution. 
Results 
S&SS is a global internal provider of clinical and scientific services for Medtronic worldwide. S&SS 
develops fully customizable solutions across Medtronic operating units, therapeutic areas and 
geographies. Founded in 2012, it is composed of a multidisciplinary team of biomedical engineers, 
scientists, statisticians, legal, economists.  
 
LeanScientia is the service on which this research is focused and it is comprised in the macroarea 
of Scientific Solutions for Hospitals. This macro-area aims to support healthcare providers to 
improve their clinical practice, therapy knowledge and enhance patient care. LeanScientia is a 
consultancy service that provide evidence-based scientific support on patient therapies & 
pathways, and clinical practices’ costs/benefits through a brand agnostic approach. Hence, with this 
service, S&SS assists hospitals by analyzing current patient pathways, identifying and tracking the 
deviation from the best-practice pathway, supporting implementation of guideline-based 
pathways, improving connection with referrals. 
In the next paragraphs, the actual implementation of VBHC and the future development are 
illustrated. 
LeanScientia and VBHC 
LeanScientia pursues VBHC by changing the way clinicians are organized to deliver care overcoming 
the silos organization to improve patients’ outcome.  
On the basis of the document analysis and the managers/employees interviews the results are 
illustrated below by categorizing and merging them in the VBHC dimensions. 
In the text below it is possible to observe how S&SS is actually implementing the VBHC through 
LeanScientia service. Thereafter, potential further development will be highlighted. 
❖ Dimension 1  
 
This phase allows the creation of a structure built around the patient’s medical condition. 
The patients’ needs and the related medical condition is identified through a screening 
check list. Thereafter, patients are stratified on the basis of the level of risk (low, medium, 
high) and they are directed to the suitable diagnostic pathway. This phase puts the patient 
at the centre and is crucial for the subsequent phases related to the outcome 
measurement.  
❖ Dimension 2, Dimension 3 and Dimension 4 
 
LeanScientia has a dedicated multidisciplinary team that maps the process which describes 
the care delivery cycle for each patient. Clinical and nonclinical activities are integrated to 
cover the entire pathway for the patient’s condition. The team meets with clinicians on a 
regular basis firstly to analyse the patient pathway and define the KPIs and secondly, to 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
831 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
discuss progress and periodic summary reports. Consistently with this dimension, S&SS 
measures and demonstrates value of delivered care based on VBHC principles. On the basis 
of the previous phase, each step in a process map delineates an activity required for the 
delivery of patient care. The resources (personnel, equipment and supplies) associated to 
each step are identified. Implementation of value-based initiatives depends on cost-
assessment methods and, in order to evaluate costs, S&SS adopts Time-driven activity-
based costing (TDABC) developed by the Harvard Business School (HBS) that calculates the 
costs of healthcare, the resources consumed as a patient moves along a care process. 
❖ Dimension 5 
 
By integrating different facilities S&SS optimizes care, overcoming fragmentation and 
duplication of efforts. Patients’ flow is organized and managed also creating pathways 
among different facilities. Indeed, patients can be directed to different wards. An IT 
platform supports LeanScientia in facilitating communication between facilities, 
automatization and standardizing of data transmission, increasing adherence to a specific 
predefined pathway. This integration has an impact on both patients and healthcare 
organization in terms of improving the patient experience (reduction of the waiting list, 
improving the accessibility and the possibility to perform all the exams in a specific time 
range), reduction of hospitalization and increasing the capacity in the ward. 
❖ Dimension 6 
 
The IT platform represents a supporting tool for the previous dimensions. S&SS provides 
scientific and analytic consultancy for setting digital tools. A digital platform has been 
developed to evaluate the patients’ outcome according to the International Consortium for 
Health Outcomes Measurement (ICHOM). The platform provides information and data 
visualization about patient pathway and outcome. 
In order to asses services quality in each stage of the process, there are internal procedures an 
annual audit ensures compliance to these procedures. An online tool validated for clinical use is 
used for managing and collecting data. 
Future Development 
In order to continuously implement the VBHC approach, LeanScientia will provide further services 
that will answer the main need in terms of overcoming fragmentation and moving towards a 
patient-centricity. 
 
Hence, the dimension 4 will be enriched in terms of functional outcome related to quality of life. 
Indeed, Patient-Reported Experience Measures (PREMs) and the Patient-Reported Outcome 
Measures (PROMs) will be collected through a survey administered by using multiple channels 
(email, mobile app, telephone) in order to inform about the patient health status after the 
treatment. The dimension 5 will be developed since the clinical pathway will be implemented in a 
Hub&Spoke digital platform by providing scientific and statistical advice. It implies a collaboration 
between a Hub centre and several supporting Spoke facilities. The Hub is represented by an highly 
specialised hospital in which patients that require complex care are directed. 
The figure 2 represents the implementation of VBHC of the specific S&SS LeanScientia service, 
considering all the dimensions that will be included in the future scenario. 
Figure 2. Implementation of VBHC dimensions in S&SS LeanScientia 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
832 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
On the basis of Andersson et al. (2015) contribution, we develop a general framework of VBHC for 
S&SS LeanScientia service (Figure 3). A VBHC approach allows to focus on what creates value for 
patients, improving their experience of care; this approach allows also to organise the care around 
patients’ medical conditions and entire pathway, following and tracking the patient’s journey. At 
last, following this approach, medical outcomes need to be measured in order to improve the 
health of the population and cost efficiency. Implementing the full components of VBHC means 
working on improving patients’ outcome and optimize patient pathway to deliver high-value care. 
Figure 3. General framework of VBHC in S&SS LeanScientia 
 
Conclusions 
The strategic Value Agenda aims at moving from a fragmented system to an integrated one that is 
focused on creating value for patients, by understanding, analysing, measuring and improving the 
related clinical and functional outcomes. It requires rethinking the model and tracking the patients’ 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
833 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
pathways overcoming the silos structure. 
 
Instead of focusing on processes, efforts should be directed towards creating as much value as 
possible for the patient in terms of high quality healthcare, reducing patients’ suffering, improving 
patient safety and achieving better cost-effectiveness (Porter & Teisberg, 2006). In a network 
perspective all the stakeholders cover a key role, especially clinicians, in implementing VBHC and 
create value for the patients.  
 
VBHC is composed of several dimensions, even though in practices their implementation is often 
partial with the adoption of one specific dimension rather than integrating more components 
simultaneously.  On this purpose LeanScientia is working to enlarge its contribution towards VBHC 
by implementing as many dimensions as possible, in order to achieve a more comprehensive 
application.  
The transformation towards a value-based organization involves all the stakeholders: clinicians, 
services providers, patients, employees, suppliers that can all jointly enable and benefits from the 
potential scenario. On this purpose, it is necessary to highlight the importance of creating 
awareness about leadership and change management topic with training and education for 
developing new competences. This action will be essential to build a common framework in which 
all the stakeholders’ network will be aligned towards a patient-centricity vision. 
References 
Am, J. B., Furstenthal, L., Jorge, F., & Roth, E. (2020). Innovation in a crisis: Why it is more critical than 
ever. McKinsey & Company. 
Barratt, M., Choi, T. Y., & Li, M. (2011). Qualitative case studies in operations management: Trends, research 
outcomes, and future research implications. Journal of operations management, 29(4), 329-342. 
Edvardsson, B., & Tronvoll, B. (2013). A new conceptualization of service innovation grounded in S‐D logic 
and service systems. International Journal of Quality and Service Sciences. 
Helkkula, A., Kowalkowski, C., & Tronvoll, B. (2018). Archetypes of service innovation: implications for value 
cocreation. Journal of Service Research, 21(3), 284-301. 
Hou, H.; Shi, Y. Ecosystem-as-structure and ecosystem-as-coevolution: A constructive examination. 
Technovation 2021, 100, 102193. 
Karpen, I. O., Bove, L. L., & Lukas, B. A. (2012). Linking service-dominant logic and strategic business practice: 
A conceptual model of a service-dominant orientation. Journal of service research, 15(1), 21-38. 
Krippendorff K. (1980) Content Analysis: An Introduction to its Methodology. Sage Publications, Newbury 
Park. 
Lee, T., & Porter, M. (2013). The strategy that will fix healthcare. Boston: Harvard Business Review. 
Liu, Z., Shi, Y., & Yang, B. (2022). Open Innovation in Times of Crisis: An Overview of the Healthcare Sector in 
Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic. Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market, and 
Complexity, 8(1), 21. 
Lusch, R. F., & Nambisan, S. (2015). Service innovation. MIS quarterly, 39(1), 155-176. 
Lusch, R. F., & Vargo, S. L. (2014). Service-dominant logic: Premises, perspectives, possibilities. Cambridge 
University Press. 
Mayan, M.J., 2009. Essentials of Qualitative Inquiry. Leaf Coast Press, Walnut Creek,  CA.  
Pereno, A., & Eriksson, D. (2020). A multi-stakeholder perspective on sustainable healthcare: From 2030 
onwards. Futures, 122, 102605. 
Porter, M. E. (2013). Value-based health care: from idea to reality. In Int. Consort. Health Outcomes Meas. 
(ICHOM) Annu. Conf.. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
834 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Porter, M. E., & Teisberg, E. O. (2006). Redefining health care: creating value-based competition on results. 
Harvard business press. 
Prahalad, C. K., & Ramaswamy, V. (2003). The new frontier of experience innovation. MIT Sloan management 
review, 44(4), 12. 
Rubalcaba, L., Michel, S., Sundbo, J., Brown, S. W., & Reynoso, J. (2012). Shaping, organizing, and rethinking 
service innovation: a multidimensional framework. Journal of Service Management. 
Sheth, J. N., Sheth, J. N., Gardner, D. M., Garrett, D. E., & Garrett, D. E. (1988). Marketing theory: evolution 
and evaluation (Vol. 12). John Wiley & Sons Incorporated. 
Shi, Y.; Lu, C.; Hou, H.; Zhen, L.; Hu, J. Linking business ecosystem and natural ecosystem together—A 
sustainable pathway for future industrialisation. J. Open Innov. Technol. Mark. Complex. 2021, 7, 38. 
Teisberg, E., Wallace, S., & O’Hara, S. (2020). Defining and implementing value-based health care: a strategic 
framework. Academic Medicine, 95(5), 682. 
Thompson, C.J., 1997. Interpreting consumers: a hermeneutical framework for deriving marketing insights 
from the texts of consumers' consumption stories. J. Mark. Res. 34 (4), 438e455.  
van der Nat, P. B. (2021). The new strategic agenda for value transformation. Health Services Management 
Research, 09514848211011739. 
Vargo, S. L., Wieland, H., & Akaka, M. A. (2015). Innovation through institutionalization: A service ecosystems 
perspective. Industrial Marketing Management, 44, 63-72. 
Verma, S.; Gustafsson, A. Investigating the emerging COVID-19 research trends in the field of business and 
management: A bibliometric analysis approach. J. Bus. Res. 2020, 118, 253–261. 
Vermicelli, S.; Cricelli, L.; Grimaldi, M. How can crowdsourcing help tackle the COVID-19 pandemic? An 
explorative overview of innovative collaborative practices. RD Manag. 2020, 51, 183–194. 
Yeoman, G., Furlong, P., Seres, M., Binder, H., Chung, H., Garzya, V., & Jones, R. R. (2017). Defining patient 
centricity with patients for patients and caregivers: a collaborative endeavour. BMJ 
innovations, 3(2). 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
835 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Holistic and Inclusive Business 
Models in the Age of COVID-19 
 
Dr. Azam Bejou1, Dr. David Bejou2,* 
1West Virginia State University; 2SUNY Empire State College  
*dbejou@gmail.com 
Extended abstract 
Since the year 2020, the World has been suffering from unexpected and horrific impacts of COVID-
19.  Millions of people died in isolation and many are still dying.  People have been faced with 
lockdowns, curfews, isolations, mask mandates, vaccines, school and business closings, and 
shortage of essential goods and services. COVID-19 has been a “punctuation”, a sudden and 
unexpected change, in the evolution of our systems as described in Punctuated Equilibrium (PE) 
Theory. Punctuated Equilibrium (PE) Theory was originally developed in the field of paleobiology to 
conceptualize that the evolution of animal species is irregular and not based on a continuous 
evolution and development. PE theory conceptualizes two periods of times, equilibrium periods 
and revolutionary periods. Equilibrium periods are longer and stable, where revolutionary periods 
are shorter and are caused by sudden punctuations that will change a system and its direction 
(Eldridge & Gould, 1972).  PE theory was conceptualized as a response to Phyletic Gradualism (PG) 
Theory which suggests animal species evolve and follow a gradual pattern of progression without 
any interruption (Eldridge & Gould, 1972).   
This article views COVID-19 as an example of a “punctuation” in the (PE) Theory, which has created 
an unexpected punctuation period since the year 2020 and for many years to evolve, with global 
financial crises, devastating healthcare crisis, massive supply chains interruptions, and dramatic 
reductions in the supply of essential goods and services.  The authors of this paper examine the 
impact of COVID-19 in the context of PE Theory in the field management and organizational change 
(Gersick, 1991).  In organizations, there is undisputed evidence that both equilibrium periods and 
revolutionary periods exist.  During equilibrium periods, organizations enjoy a relatively long period 
of stability, growth, and prosperity with somewhat a predictable business environment. During this 
time, organizations make needed adjustments to their operations on a reactionary basis. On the 
other hand, during revolutionary periods and for a relatively short time, a sudden and unexpected 
punctuation disrupts organizations with a completely unpredictable business challenge.  During the 
revolutionary periods, many organizations and economies will not survive and many will go through 
drastic transformations in order to survive (Gersick, 1991).  COVID-19 has been an unexpected and 
sudden punctuation and has affected all organizations and economies globally.   

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
836 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
To recover from the aftermath of COVID-19, nations have begun developing new business models. 
Traditional business models are not applicable. New business models must be holistic and inclusive. 
United Nation and United Nation Global Contact have developed two sets of principles that can be 
adapted and be used in the recovery efforts toward COVID-19 – UN Corporate Social Responsibility 
and Ten Principles of UN Global Compact (Mattera, et. al., 2021).  Research suggests that there is a 
link between the three “Ps” of CSR and foundation of sustainable business model during very 
difficult economic times such as those created by COVID-19 (Mattera, et. al., 2021). In addition to 
CSR, another model that has been found as the basis of sustainable business models is UNGC (2020), 
which is linked to enhancing reputation and financial performance of organizations (Mattera, et. 
al., 2021).  Adoption of ten core principles of UNGC and the three “Ps” of CSR have shown to 
produce long term financial value and reputation for organizations globally during crisis such as 
COVID-19 (Mattera, et. al., 2021). 
Corporate Sustainability Framework (CSF) is another important research to be adapted for COVID-
19 recovery.  CSF conceptualizes a holistic and sustainable business model by integrating company 
system, stakeholders, approach, and sustainability such as communication with stakeholders, 
enhanced supply chains, innovative management and strategy, and lean operation and production 
(Lozano, 2018).  Inclusive business models are also examples for policy makers and economies to 
use to engage in COVID-19 recovery. Inclusive businesses used seven creative business models to 
recover from COVID-19 by helping the poorest and smallest distributors to provide essential goods 
and services to the neediest in underdeveloped countries (Geaneotes, A. and Mignano, K., 2020).  
Seven creative business models are, (1) reorganization of their employees and new communication 
channels,  (2) reliance on existing technology-based communication, (3) innovative distribution 
channels, (4) flexible payment methods, (5) modified goods and services, (6) enhanced benefits to 
distributors, and (7) donated to the most vulnerable and poorest (Geaneotes & Mignano 2020). 
Digitalization and digital transformation are the most essential components of COVID-19’s 
economic recovery and return to norm (OECD 2020a). Successful digital transformation of economy 
must take into account trust of end users, end users’ access to technology in an inclusive manner, 
ability to be innovative, ability for new entrepreneur to enter the market and compete, encourage 
the use of technology, and opportunity for employment.  Perhaps, the most important set of action 
items and visions were articulated by 699 CEOs of 67 nations (Sethi, B. et. al. 2020).  These CEOs 
represented 67 countries with 42% of them from Western Europe. They represented a diverse set 
of industries – aerospace, automotive, consumer markets, energy, engineering, construction, 
financial services, forest, packaging, government, healthcare, hospitality, leisure, industrial 
manufacturing, insurance, pharmaceuticals, private equity, technology, media, communication, 
transportation, and logistics.  Their actions items could be summarized in twelve area - digitizing 
core business operations and processes; digitizing products and services; and using virtual business 
model,  Economic recovery has to be broad enough to reenergize COVID-19 full recovery and to 
ensure that inequalities of the past are not added to the current challenges (OECD, 2020b).   
In conclusion, The authors examine the impact of COVID-19 in the context of Punctuated Economy 
(PE) Theory in the field of management and organizational change and considering COVID-10 as an 
example of “punctuation”. They argue that new business models must be holistic and inclusive and 
that the adoption of United Global Compact 10 principles and the three Ps of Corporate Social 
Responsibility in order to produce long term financial value and reputation for organizations 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
837 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
globally during crisis such as covid-19. They point out that digitalization and digital transformation 
are the most essential components of COVID-19’s economic recovery. For that purpose, they 
believe economic recovery could be achieved with seven creative business models (1) 
reorganization of their employees and new communication channels, (2) reliance on existing 
technology-based communication, (3) innovative distribution channels, (4) flexible payment 
methods, (5) modified goods and services, (6) enhanced benefits to distributors, and (7) donated 
to the most vulnerable and poorest. They believe these holistic and inclusive business model could 
pave the way for economic recovery.  The recovery has to be broad enough to ensure that 
inequalities of the past are not added to the current challenges (OECD, 2020b). The true economic 
recovery must be holistic and inclusive. 
Keywords  
COVID-19, Punctuated Equilibrium Theory, Inclusive, economic recovery, digitalization 
References  
Eldridge, N., & Gould, S. (1972). Punctuated equilibria: An alternative to phyletic gradualism. In T. J. Schopf 
(Ed.), Models in paleobiology (pp. 82–115). San Francisco: Freeman, Cooper & Co.  
Geaneotes, A. and Mignano, K., (2020). Leveraging Inclusive Businesses Models to Support the Base of the 
Pyramid during COVID-19, was published previously under the same title and was expanded for this 
report, EM Compass Note 84, IFC  
Gersick, C. J. G. (1991). Revolutionary change theories: A multilevel exploration of the punctuated equilibrium 
paradigm. Academy of Management Review, 16(1), 10–36.  
Lozano, R., Suzuki, M., Carpenter, A., & Tyunina, O. (2017). An analysis of the contribution of Japanese 
business terms to corporate sustainability: Learnings from the ‘looking‐glass’ of the east. 
Sustainability, 9(12), 1–17. https://doi.org/10.3390/su9020188  
Lozano, R., (2018). Sustainable business models: Providing a more holistic perspective, Business Strategy and 
the Environment, (27), 1159-1166. 
OECD 
(2019), 
Going 
Digital: 
Shaping 
Policies, 
Improving 
Lives, 
OECD 
Publishing, 
Paris, 
https://doi.org/10.1787/9789264312012-en.  
OECD (2020a), Digital Transformation in the Age of COVID-19: Building Resilience and Bridging Divides, Digital 
Economy Outlook 2020 Supplement, OECD, Paris, www.oecd.org/digital/digital-economy-outlook-
covid.pdf.  
OECD (2020b), “New horizons: Structural policies for a strong recovery and a sustainable, inclusive and 
resilient future”, OECD Publishing, Paris.  
Sethi, B., Rivera, K., and Amitrano, M. (2020) PwC, 23rd Annual Global CEO Survey: Navigating the rising tide 
of uncertainty, https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/ceo-agenda/ceosurvey/2020.html  
United 
Nations 
(UN) 
(2015), 
“Sustainable 
development 
goals”, 
available 
at: 
www.un.org/ 
sustainabledevelopment (accessed February 5, 2022).  
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) (2020), “United nations global compact definition”, available at: 
www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc (accessed February 5, 2022).  
Mattera, M. and Alba Ruiz-Morales, C. (2020), “UNGC principles and SDGs: perception and business 
implementation”, Marketing Intelligence & Planning, Vol. ahead-of-print No. ahead-of-print, 
available at: https://doi.org/10.1108/MIP-08-2018-0319.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
838 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Mattera, M, Gonzalez, F., Ruiz-Morales, C. and Luana G. (2021) Facing a global crisis - how sustainable 
business models helped firms overcome COVID, Corporate Governance; Bradford 21(6),  1100-
1116. DOI:10.1108/CG-07-2020-0309. 
Kumar, A. and Nishu, A. (2021). Technology Adoption: a Solution for SMES to Overcome Problems During 
COVID-19, Academy of Marketing Studies Journal; London, 25(1),1-16. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
839 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Employee Engagement and Well-
Being in Certified B Corporations: 
Can B Corp Certification Be a 
Resilient Structure for Employee 
Engagement and Well-Being? 
 
Brownlee, Susan1,* 
1The Center for Leading in Community 
*susan@leadingincommunity.org 
Extended abstract 
A philosophical and cultural shift in society’s definition of the purpose of a corporation has taken 
place over the last several decades. Organizations are expected to offer valuable products and 
services using socially and environmentally conscious approaches while also producing a profit 
(Marquis, 2020). While profit is necessary for all successful businesses to continue to operate, 
business leaders are being compelled to go beyond a myopic focus of shareholder primacy and 
think about how their organizations are intimately connected with their employees, their 
communities, their consumers, and the environment.  
One movement that has shown promise in creating such an integrated sustainable business model 
is the certified B corporation movement. Certified B Corporations are for-profit organizations that 
are committed to a high standard of socially and environmentally responsible business practices (B 
Lab, n.d.-a). The first 82 B Corps were certified by B Lab in 2007, and as of this writing, there are 
over 4,300 certified B Corps in more than 77 countries and 153 industries (Alexander, 2018; B Lab, 
n.d.-c). Certification is accomplished through a rigorous and transparent evaluative process 
conducted by B Lab, the nonprofit that oversees the certification. Becoming a B Corp has been 
compared to achieving a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification for a 
green building or a Fair-Trade certification for coffee (Honeyman & Jana, 2019).  
While a variety of interventions and measurement tools have been created, no one social and/or 
environmental measurement tool has emerged as the standard benchmarking tool (Grieco et al., 
2015). Nevertheless, B Lab’s measurement tool, the B Impact Assessment (BIA), has become one of 
the most recognized and prominent tools in the social impact measuring and reporting space. The 
BIA is a multi-impact area, multi-step certification process overseen by an independent Standards 
Advisory Council that regularly evaluates the best practices in the five areas of the certification: 
governance, workers, community, customers, and the environment (B Lab, n.d.-b). One concern 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
840 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
that has been expressed however, is whether the policies and standards of practice rewarded in 
the BIA to benchmark an organization’s societal impact can be relied upon to effectively measure a 
company’s competency at being “good” for workers, the environment, their community, etc. To 
initiate further study of this concern, a comparative correlational case study of the Workers area of 
the BIA was completed for a small group of certified B corporations. 
Specifically, the study examined if the Workers Impact Score (WIS) could be relied upon to measure 
a company’s effectiveness at being “good for workers.” Scholars have long demonstrated that there 
are advantages to both the individual and the organization when companies develop cultures and 
implement policies, practices, and incentives that simultaneously strengthen employee 
engagement and well-being (Diener & Seligman, 2004; Huppert & So, 2013; Keyes, 2005, 2014; 
Robertson & Cooper, 2010). Therefore, in this study, “good for workers” was analyzed using a 
combination of employee engagement and well-being instruments. A Model of Employee 
Flourishing was also created and used to supplement the data analysis. 
Engagement was grounded in social exchange theory (Saks, 2006), engagement theory (Kahn, 
1990), the job-demands-resources model (JD-R) (Bakker & Demerouti, 2007, 2018) and the high 
employee involvement model (Lawler, 1986; Riordan et al., 2005). Social exchange theory describes 
how employees who feel valued and are treated respectfully by their employers reciprocate that 
behavior with higher levels of performance and engagement and other positive corporate 
citizenship behaviors (Bailey et al., 2017; Ilies et al., 2007). Engagement theory suggests three 
psychological conditions need to be met before engagement can occur: meaningfulness, safety, 
and availability (Kahn, 1990). The JD-R model divides working conditions into two general 
categories: job demands and job resources (Bakker & Demerouti, 2007). Research surrounding JD-
R indicates that job resources are positively related to employee engagement and negatively 
related to burn-out (Maslach et al., 2001; Schaufeli et al., 2009). High-involvement work practices 
(Lawler, 1986) are characterized by employees perceiving their work environment to include 
participative decision making, information sharing, training, and performance-based rewards. 
Well-being was theorized using self-determination theory (Deci & Ryan, 2000) and the PERMA 
framework of flourishing (Seligman, 2011). Self-determination theory (SDT) names three 
psychological needs (autonomy, competence, and relatedness) that are vital for healthy human 
functioning and development (Ryan & Deci, 2001). PERMA is a framework that incorporates five 
elements, each of which contribute to the overall measure of well-being or flourishing. The five 
elements are positive emotion, engagement, positive relationships, meaning, and accomplishment 
(Seligman, 2011). The PERMA model used in this study was extended to include the negative side 
of the mental health spectrum as well as physical well-being (Kern et al., 2014).  
The employee engagement variable (BEE; ⍺ = .96) used the Utrecht Work Engagement Scale (Kahn, 
1990; Schaufeli et al., 2006), the Employee Involvement Climate Scale (Lawler, 1986; Riordan et al., 
2005; Vandenberg et al., 1999), and four B Corp best practices (transparency, mission 
accountability, work/life balance, and diversity, equity, and inclusion). The well-being variable 
(BWB; ⍺ = .93) integrated Seligman’s well-being theory by using the PERMA Workplace Profiler 
(Kern, 2014; Seligman, 2011). The sample for the study was a convenience sample of eight certified 
B corporations gathered from personal and professional contacts within the certified B corporation 
community as well as snowball sampling from those contacts. There was good variability in the 
industry, sector, number of employees, and the WISs of the participating companies. Notably, it 
appears this research is the first study ever to gather data directly from employees, not just 
leadership, from a variety of certified B corporations. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
841 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The results of the study showed that even though many of the 427 respondents self-reported they 
were on average experiencing high levels of engagement and well-being, there was no significant 
correlation between the participating companies’ median engagement (rs= -.19, p = .651, n = 8) and 
well-being (rs = -.57, p = .139, n = 8) scores and the participating companies’ WISs. Nor was there 
any relationship between the engagement and well-being scores and the participating companies’ 
number of employees, years in business, and number of times they have been certified. There was, 
however, a significant positive relationship (rs = .762, p < .028, n = 8) between the constructs of 
engagement and well-being in the eight participating certified B corporations. 
While the small sample size of the study limits its findings, the lack of correlation does raise several 
questions worth investigating further. Are there concepts missing from the model used in this study 
that could be added in future studies? Are there any concepts in the BIA that B Lab should consider 
refining to improve the certification? And did the external societal events (COVID-19, social unrest, 
and political unpredictability) during the data collection period influence the data collected? Still, 
even with this study’s limitations, its future implications for practitioners such as B Lab’s Standards 
Advisory Council as well as academics are notable. Future research recommendations include 
conducting longitudinal studies, surveying additional certified B corporations, using a mixed-
methods study design, and continuing to operationalize the Model of Employee Flourishing.  
Keywords  
Certified B Corporations, B Impact Assessment, Employee Engagement, Employee Well-Being, 
multi-stakeholder cooperation 
References 
Alexander, F. H. (2018) Benefit corporation law and governance: Pursuing profit with purpose. Oakland, CA, 
Berrett-Koehler. 
B Lab. (n.d.-a) About B Corps. Available from https://bcorporation.net/about-b-corps. [Accessed 15th 
February 2022]. 
B Lab. (n.d.-b) Standards Advisory Council. Available from 
https://www.bcorporation.net/en-
us/standards/advisory-council. [Accessed 15th February 2022]. 
B 
Lab. 
(n.d.-c) 
A 
Global 
Community 
of 
Leaders. 
Available 
from 
https://usca.bcorporation.net/?gclid=Cj0KCQiAu62QBhC7ARIsALXijXSY6J5oKGdjjAwMBczJuQSdV9T
J8FGQBncph1OuZD9PrCs9kFsVB5YaAmxFEALw_wcB. [Accessed 15th February 2022]. 
Bailey, C., Madden, A., Alfes, K., & Fletcher, L. (2017). The meaning, antecedents and outcomes of employee 
engagement: A narrative synthesis. International Journal of Management Review, 19(1), 31-53. 
Bakker, A. B., & Demerouti, E. (2007). The job demands-resources model: State of the art. Journal of 
Managerial Psychology, 22(3), 309–328. 
Bakker, A. B., & Demerouti, E. (2018). Multiple levels in job demands-resources theory: Implications for 
employee well-being and performance. In E. Diener, S. Oishi, & L. Tay (Eds.), Handbook of well- being. 
Salt Lake City, UT: DEF Publishers.  
Deci, E. L., & Ryan, M. R. (2000). The “what” and “why” of goal pursuits: Human needs and the self-
determination of behavior. Psychological Inquiry, 11(4), 227-268. 
Diener, E., & Seligman, M. E. P. (2004). Beyond money: Toward and economy of well-being. Psychological 
Science in the Public Interest, 5(1), 1–31. 
Grieco, C., Michelini, L., & Iasevoli, G. (2015). Measuring value creation in social enterprises: A cluster analysis 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
842 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
of social impact assessment models. Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, 44(6), 1173-1193. 
Honeyman, R., & Jana, T. (2019) The B Corp handbook: How you can use business as a force for good. 2nd 
Edition. Oakland, CA, Berrett-Koehler. 
Huppert, F. A., & So, T. C. (2013). Flourishing across Europe: Application of a new conceptual framework for 
defining well-being. Social Indicators Research, 110(3), 837–861. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11205-
011-9966-7 
Ilies, R., Nahrgang, J. D., & Morgeson, F. P. (2007). Leader-member exchange and citizenship behaviors: A 
meta-analysis. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92(1), 269-277. 
Kahn, W. A. (1990) Psychological conditions of personal engagement and disengagement at work. Academy 
of Management Journal, 33 (4), 692–724. 
Kern, 
M. 
L. 
(2014, 
October 
13) 
The 
workplace 
PERMA 
profiler. 
Available 
from 
https://www.peggykern.org/uploads/5/6/6/7/56678211/workplace_perma_profiler_102014.pdf. 
[Accessed 15th February 2022]. 
Kern, M. L., Waters, L., Adler, A., & White, M. (2014). Assessing employee wellbeing in schools using a 
multifaceted approach: Associations with physical health, life satisfaction and professional thriving. 
Psychology, 5(6), 500–513. 
Keyes, C. L. M. (2005). Mental illness and/or mental health? Investigating axioms of the complete health 
model. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, 73(3), 539–548.  
Keyes, C. L. M. (2014). Happiness, flourishing, and life satisfaction. In W. C. Cockerham, R. Dingwall, & S. R. 
Quah (Eds.), The Wiley-Blackwell encyclopedia of health, illness, behavior, and society (Vol. 2, pp. 1–
5). John Wiley & Sons.  
Lawler, E. E., III. (1986) High-involvement management: Participative strategies for improving organizational 
performance. San Francisco, Jossey-Bass. 
Marquis, C. (2020) Better business: How the B corp movement is remaking capitalism. New Haven, Yale 
University Press. 
Maslach, C., Schaufeli, W. B., Leiter, M. P. (2001). Job burnout. Annual Review of Psychology, 52(1), 397–422. 
Riordan, C. M., Vandenberg, R. J. & Richardson, H. A. (2005) Employee involvement climate and organizational 
effectiveness. Human Resource Management, 44 (4), 471–488. 
Robertson, I. T., & Cooper, C. L. (2010). Full-engagement: The integration of employee engagement and 
psychological well-being. Leadership & Organizational Development, 31(4), 324–336. 
Ryan, R. M., & Deci, E. L. (2001). On happiness and human potentials: A review of research on hedonic and 
eudaimonic well-being. Annual Review of Psychology, 52(1), 141–166. 
Saks, A. M. (2006). Antecedents and consequences of employee engagement. Journal of Managerial 
Psychology, 21(7), 600–619. 
Schaufeli, W. B., Bakker, A. B. & Salanova, J. (2006) The measurement of work engagement with a short 
questionnaire: A cross-national study. Educational and Psychological Measurement, 66 (4), 701–716. 
Schaufeli, W. B., Bakker, A. B., & Van Rhenen, W. (2009). How changes in job demands and resources predict 
burnout, work engagement, and sickness absenteeism. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 30(7), 
893–917. 
Seligman, M. E. P. (2011) Flourish: A visionary new understanding of happiness and well-being. New York, 
Simon & Schuster. 
Vandenberg, R. J., Richardson, H. A. & Eastman, L. J. (1999) The impact of high involvement work processes 
on organizational effectiveness: A second‐order latent variable approach. Group & Organizational 
Management, 24 (3), 300–339. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
843 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Sustainable business model and 
organisational resilience: some 
evidence from the agri-food sector 
 
Gianfranco Pischedda1, Katia Corsi1, Ludovico Marinò1,  
Nicoletta Fadda1,*  
1Department of Economics and Business, University of Sassari 
*nfadda@uniss.it 
Extended abstract 
During times of continuous and increasing dynamics, organisational resilience, defined as a firm’s 
capacity to withstand environmental changes, has become a cornerstone for organisations (Meyer, 
1982). Measuring resilience is a substantial challenge for analysts, and multiple definitions have 
been proposed. These have underlined the need for the organisational ability to react to the 
environment's changes through flexibility and adaptation, thereby often triggering an innovation 
process (Hardwick and Anderson, 2019). At the same time, innovations - which can be intended to 
react to external variations - are a substantial guiding factor toward sustainability transactions 
(Carraresi and Boring, 2021). In a broader sense, sustainability is the ability of a firm to survive and 
be successful over the long term (Golicic et al. 2017). Following this more comprehensive view, an 
organisation is sustainable when meeting the needs of the present without compromising the 
future (UN Documents, 1987), which is the crux of business survival in a complex market. In other 
words, companies’ survival cannot fail to depend on safeguarding the future.  
In a world where the shock caused by the Covid-19 pandemic was only the latest in a long line of 
disruptions (see, for example, the September 11th terrorist attacks and the recession period 
between 2007 and 2013), organisations face several challenges. A way to overcome these 
challenges and survive can be found in companies’ innovating business models (BM) that represent 
a specific innovation trajectory towards sustainability (Bröring et al., 2020). Indeed, innovations can 
also be a process that allows organisations to respond to the call to change towards sustainability, 
requiring them to change some elements of their BMs (Bocken et al., 2013). A BM oriented toward 
sustainability, differently from a traditional one, embraces the economic perspective and the social 
and environmental aspects (Geissdoerfer et al., 2018), laying the groundwork for the firm’s survival. 
In summarising, it is possible to refer to resilience as a dynamic capability that enables firms to react 
to various external challenges (Teece, 2018; Carayannis et al., 2014), sometimes by reconfiguring 
their BMs, while sustainability represents a chance to face external challenges, seize opportunities, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
844 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
and follow them by reorganising the BM. Sustainability transitions can trigger changes in the 
business, for example, concerning the products or services offered to consumers, the raw materials 
adopted in production, or how a process is carried out. These types of firms’ reactions reflect the 
critical capacity to sustain a competitive advantage (Carayannis et al., 2014).  
These issues are examined in the recent studies that have sought to grasp the connection between 
resilience and sustainability, but the results are discordant (Negri et al., 2020). Some studies assert 
that sustainability and resilience affect each other (Fahimnia et al., 2019). Some others consider 
resilience a separate concept from sustainability and involve a change in structure, process, or 
functions to increase the ability to persist (Flint et al., 2011). Some authors sustain that 
sustainability and resilience can be tied to joint synergistic activities or viewed from a trade-off 
perspective, while others have shown both positive and negative relationships (Ruiz-Benıtez et al., 
2018).  
This study tries to answer this research call by clarifying if a potential synergy between sustainability 
and resilience exists. In other words, the study attempts to offer a first broad answer on if and how 
sustainability could stimulate and promote resilience. Thus, the main research question is: How 
could sustainability help activate dynamic capacities that allows the organisation to be resilient and 
innovate its BM frequently?  
This work considers the agri-food sector a pivotal one since an essential part of the challenges in 
modern society are linked with agricultural sustainability and food production. Research and 
innovation on food security and sustainable agriculture are among the “Horizon 2020” program. 
The United Nations’ sustainable development goals underline that the agri-food sector must 
become more productive, more resource-efficient, more resilient, and less wasteful (Griggs et al., 
2013). In particular, the study considers two companies: the first one is specialised in canned fish, 
while the second one is a winery enterprise. These cases are relevant for several reasons. Firstly, 
these businesses call for increased sustainability in BMs to safeguard marine habitats and the land 
(Peattie and Belz, 2010). Secondly, both the companies operate with social responsibility and 
attention to sustainability while simultaneously contributing to economic and cultural community 
development. 
From a methodological point of view, this research uses a qualitative research design adopting the 
case study method (Yin, 2018). This approach offers the possibility of better understanding 
contemporary events (Neuman, 2014) and, in this case, the company's propensity to provide 
adequate solutions to adverse challenges due to changes in the external environment 
The main adverse challenge of the last twenty years is the Covid-19 pandemic which represents one 
of the most catastrophic events for almost everything, including the global economy. In this 
scenario, the agri-food sector was among the hardest hit due to the immediate Ho.Re.Ca. market 
closures. For this reason, the firms targeted were interviewed immediately following the first Covid-
19 waves (first half of 2021) compatibly with (and in respect of) companies’ commitments, also 
considering the situations they were going through. Key-informant stakeholders operating at 
different organisational levels were involved in obtaining different viewpoints of the investigated 
phenomenon and building a chain of evidence. They were asked to answer questions about the 
company profile, types of products offered, types of clients, key activities, certifications, 
innovations, and sustainability and resilience propensity. Additionally, document analysis of 
companies’ official websites and reports was used as supplementary information sources. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
845 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The proposed draft framework mixes the two different SBMs that the authors rebuilt after 
interviews.  
As with every empirical analysis, especially in his early stage, the work presents some limitations, 
mainly attributable to the methodological choice. Although the use of a few cases (two in this work) 
has made it possible to sketch a first framework for the link between resilience and sustainability, 
it is deeply conditioned by the peculiarities of the case firms. In other words, the results obtained 
cannot be appropriately generalised, but they represent a starting point for a more comprehensive 
analysis. In this sense, multi-case studies (Eisenhardt, 1989) and subsequent comparative analyses 
would be helpful to complete/strengthen this first attempt at building a framework as proposed in 
the present study. 
This paper contributes to the conference's overall aim by proposing an interpretation of the link 
between sustainability, resilience, and BM. In particular, this study represents a first exploratory 
step for understanding if and how sustainability activates dynamic capacities that allow the 
organisation to be resilient and innovate its BM. 
Keywords  
Sustainability, sustainable business model, organisational resilience, agri-food sector.  
References  
Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2013) A value mapping tool for sustainable business modelling. 
Corporate Governance: the international journal of business in society. 13 (5), 482-497. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/CG-06-2013-0078. 
Bröring, S., Laibach, N., & Wustmans, M. (2020). Innovation types in the bioeconomy. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 266, 121939. 
Carayannis, E. G., Grigoroudis, E., Sindakis, S., & Walter, C. (2014) Business Model Innovation as Antecedent 
of Sustainable Enterprise Excellence and Resilience. 5 (3), 440-463. 
Carraresi, L., & Bröring, S. (2021). How does business model redesign foster resilience in emerging circular 
value chains? Journal of Cleaner Production, 289, 125823. 
Eisenhardt, K., M. (1989). Building Theories from Case Study Research. The Academy of Management Review, 
14(4), 532–550. https://doi.org/10.2307/258557 
Fahimnia, B., Pournader, M., Siemsen, E., Bendoly, E., & Wang, C. (2019). Behavioural operations and supply 
chain management – a review and literature mapping. Decision Sciences, 50(6), 1127-1183. 
Flint, D.J., Golicic, S.L. and Signori, P. (2011), Sustainability through resilience: the very essence of the wine 
industry, Proceedings of the 6th Academy of Wine Business Research International Conference, 
Bordeaux, June, available at: http://academyofwinebusiness.com/?page_id: 565 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D., & Evans, S. (2018) Sustainable business model innovation: A review. Journal 
of Cleaner Production, 198, 401–416. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.240 
Golicic, S. L., Flint, D. J., & Signori, P. (2017). Building business sustainability through resilience in the wine 
industry. International Journal of Wine Business Research. 29 (1), 74-97 
Griggs, D., Stafford-Smith, M., Gaffney, O., Rockström, J., Öhman, M.C., Shyamsundar, P., Noble, I. (2013). 
Policy: Sustainable development goals for people and the planet. Nature. 495, 305–307. 
Hardwick, J., & Anderson, A. R. (2019) Supplier-customer engagement for collaborative innovation using 
video conferencing: A study of SMEs. Industrial Marketing Management. 80, 43–57. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
846 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Meyer, A. D. (1982) Adapting to Environmental Jolts. Administrative Science Quarterly. 27 (4), 515-537. 
Negri, M., Cagno, E., Colicchia, C., & Sarkis, J. (2021). Integrating sustainability and resilience in the supply 
chain: A systematic literature review and a research agenda. Business Strategy and the Environment. 
30 (7), 2858-2886. 
Neuman, W.L. and Robson, K., (2014) Basics of social research. Toronto: Pearson Canada. 
Peattie, K., & Belz, F.-M. (2010). Sustainability marketing—An innovative conception of marketing. Marketing 
Review St. Gallen. 27 (5), 8–15. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11621-010-0085-7. 
Ruiz-Benítez, R., López, C., & Real, J. C. (2018). The lean and resilient management of the supply chain and its 
impact on performance. International Journal of Production Economics, 203, 190-202. 
Teece, D. J. (2018) Business models and dynamic capabilities. Long Range Planning. 51 (1), 40–49 
United Nations. (2015) United Nations Global Sustainable Development Report; United Nations: New York, 
NY, USA. 
World Commission on Environment and Development (1987). Our Common Future. Oxford: Oxford University 
Press. p. 27. ISBN 019282080X. 
Yin, R.K., (2018) Case study research and applications. Sage. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
847 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
COVID-19 and evaluation of 
institutional resilience  
The framework of preparedness, agility, robustness, 
and impact in the society  
Lara Johannsdottir1*  
1Environment and Natural Resources, Faculty of Business 
Administration, University of Iceland  
*laraj@hi.is   
Extended abstract 
Early January 2020 marks the starting point of the coronavirus outbreak in many countries around 
the globe. This outbreak embeds risks on various level, ranging from individual risk to risks on 
systemic and existential levels (Cook and Johannsdottir, 2021; Johannsdottir and Cook, 2019; 
Thurm et al., 2018). The first registered COVID-19 infection in Iceland was on February 28th, 2020, 
followed by meeting limitations, with limits set at 100 people, and closing of colleges and 
universities (The Directorate of Health and the Department of Civil Protection and Emergency 
Management, n.d.).  
Scholars from Croatia, Iceland, Lithuania, Spain, and Romania taking part in an international 
ERASMUS+ team, leading a project titled Teaching Institutional Resilience and Prompt Reaction to 
Crisis: Good Governance Experiences in Europe (TERRAGOV), have employed a specific framework 
for recognizing, through case studies, both inward and outward institutional or corporate resilience, 
and by evaluating preparedness, agility, robustness, and impact in the society during the COVID-19 
epidemic. The evaluation of inward resilience was for instance based on risk management, capacity 
to react to crisis, capacity to adapt to change, etc. and outward resilience on the institutional 
contribution/impact in society, capacity to reach intended goals, collaborative activities, etc. This 
was then followed by expert evaluation governance performance in the crisis context, were each 
of the factors, preparedness, agility, robustness, and impact in the society, was graded on the scale 
1-5.   
One of the Icelandic cases was the main higher-education institution in the country, the University 
of Iceland (University of Iceland, n.d.). The argument for selecting the University of Iceland as a case 
is based on its societal impacts, as it is by far the biggest university in the country with more than 
13,000 students, around 1,650 employees, and growing number of foreign students (University of 
Iceland, 2020a), therefore very important in societal context. It enjoys great trust in the society, 
according to Gallup survey in 2021, and the trust has been growing (Gallup, e.d.). Furthermore, the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
848 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
University ranks high in international comparison, both in case of Times Higher Education World 
University Rankings and Impact Rankings (THE World University Rankings, n.d.). This makes the 
University an interesting case to explore.   
In this case study announcements from the Rectors office were analyzed, as well as the content of 
a specific COVID-19 website created, https://english.hi.is/covid, providing information on the 
epidemic effects on students, advises from the psychologists at the Student Counselling and Career 
Centre, information for staff regarding working and teaching during COVID-19, effective 
restrictions, and more. The first announcement from the Rector was issued on February 27th, 2020, 
around the same time as the first case of COVID-19 infection was confirmed in the country, resulting 
in meeting limitations, with limits set at 100 people, and closing of colleges and universities (The 
Directorate of Health and the Department of Civil Protection and Emergency Management, n.d.).  
The analysis revealed various measures that the University implemented in response to the COVID-
19 epidemic in Iceland. This includes University of Iceland emergency response plan stating for 
instance the “needs to make changes to operations and teaching arrangements without a new 
emergency level being announced, e.g. due to significant numbers of absences” (University of 
Iceland, 2020b, p. 1). Rector announcements served the purpose of encouraging students and/or 
staff, such as providing flexibility regarding students learning, teaching, researching, and other staff 
working arrangements. The inward resilience had to do with the whole learning and teaching 
environment, which was reorganized and digitalized in a very steep learning curve. Three themes 
surfaced through the analysis of rector announcements, namely health and wellbeing, social 
implications, and technological and infrastructure implications.  
Outward resilience refers to the instrumental role of the University in the society during the 
epidemic. Given increased unemployment in the society, an extended deadline was granted for 
application to undergraduate and graduate programs, offering of summer courses, temporary 
summer jobs for students, cancelling of events that could spread the virus, in addition to 
instrumental role of academics, scientists, and students in combatting the epidemic, such as 
through solutions or research in collaboration with the national university hospital, Landspítalinn. 
Based on the overall analysis, and with further arguments in each category the preparedness of the 
University was rated as (4/5), agility (5/5), robustness (5/5), and impact in the society (5/5).  
The presentation proposed at the conference connects to the overall conference theme of 
sustainable business model challenges, in terms of economic recovery and digital transformation, 
given the major transformation needed to perform quality education, societal support, and 
research in a higher-education institutions during the COVID-19 epidemic. It furthermore associates 
with the subtheme of exploring organization impact, especially how preparedness, agility, 
robustness, and impact in the society contribute to institutional or organizational resilience.   
Keywords  
COVID-19, agility, preparedness, robustness, impact. 
References  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
849 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Cook, D., & Johannsdottir, L. (2021). Impacts, Systemic Risk and National Response Measures Concerning 
COVID-19–the Island Case Studies of Iceland and Greenland. Sustainability. 13 (15), 8470. 
Gallup. (n.d.). Traust til stofnana. Available from: https://www.gallup.is/nidurstodur/thjodarpuls/traust-til-
stofnana/ [Accessed 1st February 2022]. [Accessed 1st February 2022].  
Johannsdottir, L. & Cook, D. (2019). Systemic risk of maritime-related oil spills viewed from an Arctic and 
insurance perspective. Ocean & Coastal Management. 179, 104853. 
The Directorate of Health and the Department of Civil Protection and Emergency Management. (n.d.). 
Iceland´s 
response. 
Principal measures 
that 
have 
been 
employed. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.covid.is/sub-categories/iceland-s-response [Accessed 1st February 2022].  
THE 
World 
University 
Rankings. 
(n.d.). 
Iceland: 
University 
of 
Iceland. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.timeshighereducation.com/world-university-rankings/university-iceland 
[Accessed 
1st February 2022].   
Thurm, R., Baue, B., & van der Lugt, C. (2018). Blueprint 5. A Step-By-Step Approach to Organizational 
Thriveability and System Value Creation. Berlin: Reporting 3.0. 
University 
of 
Iceland. 
(2020a). 
Facts 
and 
figures. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.hi.is/sites/default/files/bgisla/lykiltolur_2020.pdf 
[Accessed 
1st 
February 
2022]. Available from: https://www.hi.is/sites/default/files/bgisla/lykiltolur_2020.pdf [Accessed 1st 
February 2022].  
University of Iceland. (2020b). University of Iceland emergency response plan for the Covid-19 (Coronavirus) 
epidemic 
2020. 
Available 
from 
https://english.hi.is/sites/default/files/bryndjo/pdf/responseplan_covid19_2020.pdf [Accessed 1st 
February 2022].  
University of Iceland. (n.d.). University of Iceland [Frontpage]. Available from: https://english.hi.is/response 
[Accessed 1st February 2022].  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
850 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
New Business Models for Strong 
Sustainable Consumption in the 
Fashion Industry: The Case of SKFK  
Cristina Lozano-Gómez1*; Miguel Ángel López-Navarro1 
1Jaume I University, Spain 
*cristina.lozano.uji@gmail.com 
Extended abstract 
In recent years, sustainability has begun to acquire a significant prominence in the fashion industry 
(BOF and McKinsey & Company, 2020; Pedersen et al., 2018; UNECE, 2018). Currently, the fashion 
industry can hardly be said to meet the requirements of sustainable development and sustainable 
consumption (UNECE, 2018). The dominant business model of fast-fashion is leading the industry 
towards a state of unsustainability as consequence of constant demand for new regularly, changing 
fashion trends at an affordable price, a process that is facilitated by lower production costs in 
developing countries where multinational fashion companies have delocalized their production 
processes due to less stringent social and environmental standards (Ritch and Schröder, 2012). This 
approach contributes to overconsumption since the combination of low prices and latest trends 
increasingly encourage consumers to buy more garments than they need, resulting in premature 
disposal and fashion waste (Kozlowski et al., 2012). This consumption pattern is a major cause of 
fashion industry’s negative impacts on the ecological and social environment along the entire 
supply chain (Pedersen et al., 2018). Today, it is estimated that more than 90 billion garments are 
sold and 15 million tons of garments are discarded annually across Europe and North America (Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation, 2013). The magnitude of this expanding global industry offers fashion 
businesses an outstanding opportunity to make a positive impact both on the environment and in 
global society. Having these numbers in mind, the fashion industry can play a major role in reaching 
the Paris agreement´s goal of climate neutrality by 2050 and the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), specifically SDG 12 aimed at ensuring sustainable consumption and 
production patterns.  
Sustainable consumption can be pursued via two principal pathways: “weak” and “strong” 
sustainable consumption (Fuchs and Loreck 2005; Loreck and Spangenberg, 2014). The former 
argues that sustainable consumption can be achieved improving the efficiency of production-
consumption through technological innovations. The latter, focused on sufficiency, is based on the 
pursuit of fundamental shifts in consumption patterns and reductions in consumption levels. To 
date, endeavors to minimize the detrimental impacts of fashion production have been supply-side 
driven through strategies centered on increasing the environmental efficiency of production 
processes and products –weak sustainable consumption-, instead of demand-side driven to 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
851 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
confront continuous (over)consumption levels –strong sustainable consumption-. While important, 
these efficiency improvements often lead to rebound effects in which increased efficiency results 
in more consumption (Bocken and Short, 2016), thereby not preventing the mass-manufacturing of 
clothing and its detrimental environmental impacts. Hence, it is not merely about redesigning the 
business on the supply side, but also about reconceiving how businesses operate on the demand-
side by seeking more sustainable ways of delivering value to their customers (Bocken and Short, 
2016; Tunn et al., 2019).  In this light, sustainable business models from a demand-side perspective 
offer a potential pathway to deliver greater social and environmental sustainability through re-
conceptualizing the purpose of the firm and value. However, despite its importance, extant 
literature has not sufficiently addressed how to implement this type of business models aimed at 
promoting sustainable consumption behavior (Bocken and Short, 2016; Tunn et al., 2019), i.e., 
aimed at reducing or moderating rate and volume of consumption (Bocken et al., 2014). This 
absence of role models for succeed implementation constitutes a significant impediment for 
fashion companies to more widespread adoption of this imperative approach.  
In this context, the aim of this study is to investigate how companies can change consumer behavior 
through their business model and practices, this is, how organizations can implement a business 
model aimed at curbing clothing demand. For this purpose we carried out an exploratory case study 
of a Spanish fashion brand –SKFK to illustrate how fashion brands can effectively embed the strong 
sustainable consumption approach into their business model. The company was the first GOTS and 
Fairtrade certified fashion brand in Spain. Since the study of this type of sustainable business 
models is a new phenomenon, our research takes an exploratory, qualitative approach. Empirical 
data are collected through a semi-structured interview with the manager of the Marketing and 
Communication Department, as well as reports, news articles and other materials regarding the 
company. The study reveals that sufficiency can be embedded within the business model through 
multiple mechanisms including, among others: encouraging customers to do not buy more than 
necessary and prioritizing quality garments designed to last in the company communication; 
offering a repairing service to prolong the life-cycle and durability of its products; in-store collection 
of used garments in collaboration with Koopera, a Spanish cooperative, in order to be resold or 
upcycled into other SKFK products; and offering a totally innovative Circular Closet service founded 
on the idea of leasing clothing. Moreover, considering SKFK 20 year history, the business case shows 
that profitability and sufficiency-based business models are possible. This finding was particularly 
significant as it demonstrates that sufficiency-driven business models can be economically viable, 
while contributing to curbing over-consumption. Thus, this real world case study of strong 
sustainable consumption exemplifies how to effectively embed sustainability into business 
practices which will result in more sustainable production and consumption patterns. 
Keywords  
Sustainable consumption; strong/weak sustainable consumption; business models for sustainable 
consumption; fashion industry 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
852 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
References  
Bocken, N.M.P., Short, S.W., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2014). A literature y practice review to develop 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production 65, 42-56. 
Bocken, N.M.P. & Short, S.W. (2016). Towards a sufficiency-driven business model: Experiences and 
opportunities. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions 18, 41-61. 
BOF –the business of fashion- y McKinsey & Company. 2020. The State of Fashion 2020. Coronavirus 
Update. 
Available 
from:  
https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/mckinsey/industries/retail/our%20insights/its%20ti
me%20to%20rewire%20the%20fashion%20system%20state%20of%20fashion%20corona
virus%20update/the-state-of-fashion-2020-coronavirus-update-final.pdf  (Accessed: 28th 
January 2022). 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2013) Towards The Circular Economy. Opportunities for the 
Consumer 
Goods 
Sector, 
Ellen 
MacArthur 
Foundation. 
Available 
from: 
https://emf.thirdlight.com/link/coj8yt1jogq8-hkhkq2/@/preview/1?o 
(Accessed: 
28th 
January 2022). 
Fuchs, D. & Lorek, S. (2005). Sustainable Consumption Governance. A History of Promises and 
Failures. Journal of Cleaner production, 28 (3): 261-288.  
Kozlowki, A., Bardecki, M. & Searcy, C. (2012). Environmental impacts in the fashion industry: a life-
cycle and stakeholder framework. Journal of Corporate Citizenship 45, 17–36.  
Lorek, S. & Spangenberg, J.H. (2014). Sustainable consumption within a sustainable economy –
beyond green growth and green economies. Journal of Cleaner Production 63, 33-44. 
Pedersen, E. R. G., Gwozdz, W. & Kant Hvass, K. (2018). Exploring the Relationship Between Business 
Model Innovation, Corporate Sustainability, and Organisational Values within the Fashion 
Industry. Journal of Business Ethics, 149 267-284.  
Ritch, E. L. & Schröder, M. J. (2012). Accessing and affording sustainability: the experience of fashion 
consumption within young families. International Journal of Consumer Studies, 36, 203–
210. 
Tunn,, V.S.C., Bocken, N.M.P., van den Hende, E.A. & Schoormans,, J.P.L. (2019). Business models 
for sustainable consumption in the circular economy: An expert study. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 212, 324-333. 
UNECE (United Nations Economic Commission for Europe). (2018) Fashion and the SDGs: what role 
for 
the 
UN. 
International 
Conference 
Center 
Geneva. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.unece.org/fileadmin/DAM/RCM_Website/RFSD_2018_Side_event_sustaina
ble_fashion.pdf (Accessed: 28th January 2022). 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
853 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Sustainable business model and 
understanding the sustainable value 
framework 
 
Samira Soltani Behroz*, Sara Walton, Lincoln Wood,  
Tadhg Ryan-Charleton 
Department of management, University of Otago 
*Samira.Soltani@postgrad.otago.ac.nz  
Extended abstract 
What sustainability can do for the businesses? What is the benefit of being a sustainable business? 
How a business can be sustainable? These are the questions that have arisen by many of academic 
and practitioners since the last decade (Santos, Pache and Birkholz, 2015; Joyce and Paquin, 2016). 
One approach these questions is sustainable business model (SBM) that emerged from the 
expansion of business model (BM). BM is the logic of the companies for creating, delivering, and 
capturing value for the customers, while SBM encompasses the holistic view of the value and goes 
beyond customer value. This means that SBM is the BM which creates, captures, and delivers value 
not only for the customers but also other key stakeholders (See., e.g., Lüdeke-Freund and Dembek, 
2017; Dentchev et al., 2018). By this definition, it is clear that the concept of value in BM and SBM 
is different.  In the literature of SBM, the concept of SV is discussed instead of value. SV is creating 
value for the key stakeholders. It includes social, environmental, and economic value (Bocken et al., 
2013; Evans et al., 2017). Many scholars have mentioned that the core of SBM is creating SV (e.g., 
evan 2017). 
Despite the growing interest in the concept of SV, the knowledge of sustainable value creation (SVC) 
remains limited (Aagaard and Ritzén, 2020; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2020). Therefore, this research 
addresses this research question: how the key stakeholders perceive the SV, and how this 
perception helps the organizations create SV? And the main objective of this research is to better 
understand the concept of SVC.  
To answer the above research questions, the exploratory sequential mixed methods approach was 
applied. Understanding SV and SVC is complex, and there is a lack of holistic meaningful 
understanding of this complex issue in the literature. Since one type of research is not enough to 
understand the problem, I used the mixed method to better understand the problem compared to 
using only one of the qualitative or quantitative approaches (Creswell, 2015). To answer the 
research question, I needed a qualitative study because it focuses on human perception and 
understanding (Stake, 2010), and the qualitative research is needed when there is a lack of “holistic 
and meaningful“ understanding of how complex, real-life system of process works (Yin, 2011). In 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
854 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
another word for confirming the extracted result from the qualitative study and generalization of 
the result, a quantitative study is required. Therefore, mixed method approach fits this study as it 
can “simultaneously address a diverse range of confirmatory and exploratory questions, while a 
single approach study often addresses only one or the other” (Teddlie and Tashakkori, 2010, p. 9). 
In terms of data collection methods, qualitative data was generated through semi-structured 
interviews while the survey was used to collect quantitative data.  
By studying the SV from the stakeholder perspective, this study is expected to contribute to the 
SBM and SV literature, particularly to sustainable value creation. Moreover, the majority of the 
studies explained the relationship between social, environmental, and economic value in the 
concept of the SV, while this study expects to add to this understanding by introducing the other 
concepts that can explain the linkage between social value and environmental value with economic 
value. In another word, this study expects to explain the bridge between social and environmental 
value with economic value creation. 
Keywords  
Sustainable value, Sustainable value creation, Sustainable business model, Qualitative study, Survey 
References 
Aagaard, A. and Ritzén, S. (2020) “The critical aspects of co-creating and co-capturing sustainable value in 
service business models,” Creativity and Innovation Management, 29(2), pp. 292–302. 
doi:10.1111/caim.12339. 
Bocken, N. et al. (2013) “A value mapping tool for sustainable business modelling,” Corporate Governance, 
13(5), pp. 482–497. doi:10.1108/CG-06-2013-0078. 
Creswell, J.W. (2015) Revisiting mixed methods and advancing scientific practices. The Oxford handbook of 
multimethod and mixed methods research inquiry. 
Dentchev, N. et al. (2018) “Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field of research 
and a future research agenda,” Journal of Cleaner Production, 194, pp. 695–703. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.05.156. 
Evans, S. et al. (2017) “Business model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for 
creation of sustainable business models,” Business Strategy and the Environment, 26(5), pp. 597–
608. doi:10.1002/bse.1939. 
Joyce, A. and Paquin, R.L. (2016) “The triple layered business model canvas: A tool to design more sustainable 
business 
models,” 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
135(June), 
pp. 
1474–1486. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.06.067. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. et al. (2020) “Sustainable value creation through business models: The what, the who and 
the how,” Journal of Business Models, 8(3), pp. 62–90. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Dembek, K. (2017) “Sustainable business model research and practice: Emerging field 
or 
passing 
fancy?,” 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
168, 
pp. 
1668–1678. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.08.093. 
Santos, F., Pache, A.-C. and Birkholz, C. (2015) “Making hybrids work: Aligning business models and 
organizational design for social enterprises,” California Management Review, 57(3), pp. 36–58. 
doi:10.1525/cmr.2015.57.3.36. 
Stake, R.E. (2010) Qualitative research. The Gulford press. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
855 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Teddlie, C. and Tashakkori, A. (2010) Overview of contemporary issues in mixed methods research., Sage 
handbook of mixed methods in social and behavioral research. 
Yin, R.K. (2011) Qualitative research from start to finish. New York: The guilford press. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
856 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
The Role of Organisational Trust and 
Leadership Attitudes in Adaptation to 
the Post-Pandemic New Normal in 
Workplaces 
 
Edit Szathmári1,2,*, Gábor Aranyi3, Orhidea Edith Kiss2 
1Doctoral School of Psychology, ELTE Eötvös Loránd University; 
2Institute of Psychology, ELTE Eötvös Loránd University; 3Institute of 
Education and Psychology, ELTE Eötvös Loránd University 
*szathmari.edit@ppk.elte.hu 
Extended abstract 
Problem statement and questions 
The COVID pandemic had a significant impact in the workplace; ways of working, communication 
channels, and line-manager – line report relationships have changed swiftly and dramatically 
(Carroll & Conboy, 2020). In early 2022 the previously evident personal and face-to-face 
relationships in most workplaces are not entirely present anymore (Ahrendt et al., 2021); digital 
work and remote / home office are part of business as usual (Galanti et al., 2021). Several scholars 
and practitioners suggest that these practices will stay with us in long term as ‘the new normal’ 
(Bonacini, Gallo & Scicchitano, 2021; Caligiuri et al., 2020). 
Organisations, employees, and leaders could benefit from a wider and deeper understanding of the 
adaptation process to the new normal. We adopt organisational psychology approach, considering 
the COVID-era for organisations as a crisis event-induced change management process 
(Komodromos, Halkias & Harkiolakis, 2019; Pearson & Clair, 1998). 
Several research underpin, that leaders play a key role in organisational adaptation to a crisis 
situation (Mumford et al., 2007), in particular, transformational leadership appears to be the most 
effective across different organisational cultures (Bowers, Hall & Srinivasan, 2017; Pillai, 2013). 
Besides, leaders’ information management and decision making, considered as crisis management 
is substantial (Hadley et. al., 2011). The shift from personal to virtual relationships affects 
organisational trust (Breuer et al., 2020; Fiol & O’Connor, 2005), that is connected to effective crisis 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
857 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
management (Mishra, 1996) and also serves as a mediating mechanism between transformational 
leadership and organisational performance (Katou, 2015). 
Considering the above, our research investigates how the challenges and solutions due to the 
increasing proportion of digital and remote / home office work are related to organisational trust, 
crisis management and transformational leadership style in public, for-profit, and non-profit types 
of organisations and different organisational cultures. Our research questions and hypotheses are: 
Q1: What are the outcomes of remote work experienced by leaders in different types and cultures 
of organisations during the COVID-era? 
We hypothesise that 
H1: There are differences in the outcomes among public, for-profit, and non-profit 
organisations. 
H2: There are differences in the outcomes among organisational cultures. 
Q2: How are those outcomes connected with organisational trust, crisis management, and 
transformational leadership style among different organisational cultures? 
We hypothesise that 
H3: Higher level of organisational trust, effective crisis management and transformational 
leadership are connected with more positive outcomes in all cultures. 
Q3 What are the differences across the COVID-waves from outcome, organisational trust, crisis 
management and transformational leadership perspectives, that can be used as learnings for 
building future business models of adapting to crisis? 
We hypothesise that 
H4: The relationships between the outcomes and examined variables (organisational trust, 
crisis management, transformational leadership style) differ wave by wave. 
 
Method 
We asked leaders via questionnaires during the four waves of the COVID-pandemic in Hungary 
about their leadership and organisational challenges and solutions connected with remote work. 
Additionally, we have measured their crisis management (Hadley et. al., 2011), leadership style 
(Bass & Avolio, 1992), and organisational trust (Shockley-Zalabak et. al., 2000). 
Participants 
Organisational leaders completed our questionnaires at three points in time: after the first wave of 
the pandemic (March-June 2020; 300+ responses), during the joint second-third wave (Nov 2020–
Jan 2021; 300+ responses), and during the fourth wave (Oct-Dec 2021; 700+ responses). Although 
the sampling was not longitudinal, all three samples show similar characteristic: consisted mainly 
of experienced leaders (Mdn = 9 years in leadership role), distributed almost equally among lower-
, middle and executive-level managers. Our respondents worked for for-profit, non-profit and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
858 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
public types of organisations of all sizes, and in diverse organisational cultures, including ‘hierarchy’, 
‘market’, ‘team’, and ‘adhocracy’-type cultures (Cameron & Quinn, 1988). 
Initial results and preliminary findings 
Q1: Based on preliminary data analysis, leaders’ main challenges were related to establishing a 
partnership with their team in the new circumstances. Specific issues included communication 
problems, monitoring performance, motivating staff, and maintaining team cohesion and 
employees’ organisational identity. Respondents were also affected by longer working hours and 
the blending of work and non-work times. They addressed these challenges mainly by new forms 
of interaction, and additional time dedicated to communication and digital cooperation solutions. 
Our initial results suggest that these measures were not sufficient in addressing all the challenges. 
H1: Leaders’ experiences and difficulties differed by organisational type. The daily work of 
managers in the for-profit sector was the least affected by the pandemic situation compared to 
public and non-profit sector managers. Leaders in the public sector had the hardest time, 
experiencing the highest increase in both volume and variety of tasks, which may be explained by 
our finding that this sector was the least prepared for digital remote work. These results are 
consistent with previous research findings that digital transformation, as a prerequisite for remote 
work, poses a significant organisational challenge to the public sector (Edelmann, Schossboeck & 
Albrecht, 2021). 
H2: We have found differences in the first wave of the pandemic among organisational cultures: 
‘adhocracy’ and ‘team’ cultures experienced more negative outcomes compared to ‘hierarchy’ and 
‘market’ cultures. 
Q2, H3: Additionally, we found that leaders’ crisis management and transformational leadership 
style are closely related to organisational trust: they exert their impact on the organisation through 
formation of trust. These leadership attitudes differ by organisational culture in favour of person-
centered ones, also explaining the advantage of these cultures in the long-term adaptation to the 
pandemic and post-pandemic situation. The above findings suggest that organisational trust, 
transformational leadership and effective crisis management contribute to the (re-)establishment 
of partnership between leaders and their team, which can serve as a basis for the post-pandemic 
new normal. 
Q3, H4: Organisational trust was affected by pandemic-related restrictions, which showed different 
patterns across waves by organisational culture. Trust in person-centered ‘team’ organisational 
cultures remained the highest, although the first wave affected this culture the most. On the other 
hand, regulation-centered cultures like ‘hierarchy’ and ‘market’ scored lower in organisational 
trust: despite reporting fewer operational problems, they experienced an increasing loss of 
confidence wave after wave, which might be explained by their slower adaptation to their 
employees’ needs during the new normal. 
Our preliminary findings are in accordance with previous research results regarding the positive 
organisational effects of transformational leadership (Lowe, Kroeck & Sivasubramaniam, 1996) and 
organisational trust (Dietz & Den Hartog, 2006) in the organisational adaptation process. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
859 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Further analysis may allow us to create a model of organisational and leadership adaptation to the 
post-pandemic situation, informing new business models from an organisational psychology 
perspective. 
Keywords  
new normal, organisational culture, organisational trust, remote work, transformational leadership 
References  
Ahrendt, D., Mascherini, M., Nivakoski, S. & Sandor, E. (2021) Living, working and COVID-19 (Update April 
2021): Mental health and trust decline across EU as pandemic enters another year. Available from: 
https://www.eurofound.europa.eu/publications/report/2021/living-working-and-covid-19-update-
april-2021-mental-health-and-trust-decline-across-eu-as-pandemic [Accessed 31st January 2022].  
Bass, B. & Avolio, B. (1992) Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire—Short Form 6S. Center for Leadership 
Studies: Binghamton, NY, USA 
Bonacini, L., Gallo, G. & Scicchitano, S. (2021) Working from home and income inequality: risks of a ‘new 
normal’ with COVID-19. Journal of Population Economics. 34, 303–360. 
Bowers, M. R., Hall, J. R. & Srinivasan, M. M. (2017) Organizational culture and leadership style: The missing 
combination for selecting the right leader for effective crisis management. Business Horizons. 60 (4), 
551-563. 
Breuer, C., Hüffmeier, J., Hibben, F. & Hertel, G. (2020) Trust in teams: A taxonomy of perceived 
trustworthiness factors and risk-taking behaviors in face-to-face and virtual teams. Human 
Relations. 73 (1), 3–34. 
Cameron, K. S. & Quinn, R. E. (1988) Organizational paradox and transformation. In R. E. Quinn & K. S. 
Cameron (eds.), Paradox and transformation: Toward a theory of change in organization and 
management. Ballinger Publishing Co/Harper & Row Publishers, pp. 1–18. 
Caligiuri, P., De Cieri, H., Minbaeva, D., Verbeke, A. & Zimmermann, A. (2020) International HRM insights for 
navigating the COVID-19 pandemic: Implications for future research and practice.  Journal of 
International Business Studies.  2020 Jun 2:1-17. 
Carroll, N. & Conboy, K. (2020) Normalising the “new normal”: Changing tech-driven work practices under 
pandemic time pressure.  International Journal of Information Management.  55, 2020, 102186. 
Dietz, G. & Den Hartog, D. N. (2006) Measuring trust inside organisations. Personnel Review. 35 (5), 557–588.  
Edelmann, N., Schoßböck, J. & Albrecht, V. (2021) Remote Work in Public Sector Organisations: Employees’ 
Experiences in a Pandemic Context. In: ACM, DG.O'21: The 22nd Annual International Conference on 
Digital Government Research: 408-415, ACM, New York 
Fiol, C. M. & O'Connor, E. J. (2005) Identification in Face-to-Face, Hybrid, and Pure Virtual Teams: Untangling 
the Contradictions. Organization Science. 16 (1), 19–32. 
Galanti, T., Guidetti, G., Mazzei, E., Zappalà, S. & Toscano, F. (2021) Work From Home During the COVID-19 
Outbreak: The Impact on Employees' Remote Work Productivity, Engagement, and Stress. Journal of 
Occupational and Environmental Medicine. 63 (7), e426–e432. 
Haddon, A., Loughlin, C. & McNally, C. (2015) Leadership in a time of financial crisis: what do we want from 
our leaders? Leadership & Organization Development Journal. 36 (5), 612-627.  
Hadley, C. N., Pittinsky, T. L., Sommer, S. A. & Zhu, W. (2011) Measuring the efficacy of leaders to assess 
information and make decisions in a crisis: The C-LEAD scale. The Leadership Quarterly. 22 (4), 633–
648.  
Katou, A.A. (2015) "Transformational leadership and organisational performance: Three serially mediating 
mechanisms", Employee Relations. (37) 3, 329-353. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
860 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Komodromos, M., Halkias, D. & Harkiolakis, N. (2019) Managers’ perceptions of trust in the workplace in 
times of strategic change: The cases of Cyprus, Greece and Romania. EuroMed Journal of 
Business. 14 (1), 2-20.  
Lowe, K. B., Kroeck, K. G. & Sivasubramaniam, N. (1996) Effectiveness correlates of transformational and 
transactional leadership: A meta-analytic review of the MLQ literature. The Leadership Quarterly. 7 
(3), 385- 415. 
Mishra, A. (1996) Organizational responses to crisis: the centrality of trust. In R. Kramer, & T. Tyler Trust in 
organizations: Frontiers of theory and research (pp. 261-287). SAGE Publications, Inc. 
Mumford, M. D., Friedrich, T. L., Caughron, J. J. & Byrne, C. L. (2007) Leader cognition in real-world settings: 
How do leaders think about crises? The Leadership Quarterly. 18 (6), 515–543. 
Pearson, C. M. & Clair, J. A. (1998) Reframing Crisis Management. The Academy of Management Review.  23 
(1), 59–76. 
Pillai, R. (2013) Transformational leadership for crisis management. In A. J. DuBrin (ed.), Handbook of research 
on crisis leadership in organizations. Edward Elgar Publishing, pp. 47-66. 
Shockley-Zalabak, P., Ellis, K. & Winograd, G. (2000) Organizational trust: What it means, why it 
matters. Organization Development Journal. 18 (4), 35–48. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
861 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 3.3 - Entrepreneurship for social 
inclusion: business modelling for impact 
Track chairs: Filippo Giordano (LUMSA University) and 
Alessandro Lanteri (Hult International Business 
School), Lucia Marchegiani (Roma Tre University) 
 
It is a common knowledge that entrepreneurship can boost social inclusion by allowing 
marginalized people (such as the very poor, women in many contexts, minorities, disabled 
and disadvantaged, refugees, convicted and former convicted) to engage actively in 
productive economic activities. The ability of this kind of entrepreneurial initiative to have 
an impact is strictly linked with the necessity to set sustainable business models.  
The track aims at attracting scholars to present research and business cases to discuss the 
link between sustainable business modelling and impact generation. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
862 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Hybrid partnerships in the system of 
International Development 
Cooperation 
 
Plinio Limata1*, Lucia Marchegiani2, Grazia Sgarra3  
1Department of Business Studies, Roma Tre University; 2Department 
of Business Studies, Roma Tre University; 3AICS Agenzia Italiana per 
la Cooperazione allo Sviluppo 
*plinio.limata@uniroma3.it 
Abstract 
The International Development Cooperation system has recently been enriched by opening the 
possibility for for-profit enterprises to contribute to achieving sustainable development goals 
through inclusive and sustainable entrepreneurial projects in the target countries of cooperation. 
However, the entrepreneurial system does not yet seem ready to take up the organizational 
challenges implicit in the "Profit for Development" paradigm: the creation of inclusive businesses 
and/or hybrid organizations to create shared value. Through the analysis of the projects presented 
to the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation, the article highlights the reality, rather distant 
from the myth. In particular, traditional enterprises still lack the mindset and required 
competencies to engage and manage hybrid partnerships that put together for-profit and not-for-
profit organizations at both national and international levels. This is also testified by the 
conservative approach in human resources management (HRM) strategies and policies. The paper 
discusses the empirical results while offering a novel interpretation and a theoretical contribution 
to the stream of research on hybrid partnerships. 
Keywords  
Development Cooperation, Inclusive Business, Inclusive Business Model, Human Resources, 
Sustainability  
 
1. Introduction 
 
International Development Cooperation (IDC) has undergone a significant change over the last 
decades due to economic and political pressures (Degnbol-Martinussen and Engberg-Pedersen, 
2003). The original concept of international aid based on a vertical transfer of financial and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
863 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
knowledge inputs from developed to poorest countries has gone out of date. Human rights have a 
positive economic effect (Blume and Voigt, 2009), and sustainability is the north star to stimulate 
transformational processes in advancing societal wellbeing and creating positive social change – 
PSC (Stephan et al., 2016), thanks to a coopetitive advantage (Morioka et al., 2017). The 
relationships between business, society, and the environment have finally been recognized as 
interdependent (Porter and Kramer, 2006; 2011), and the Creation of Shared Value is considered 
even more necessary within Developing Countries (Cafferata, 2009): businesses are being expected 
to fill a widening leadership vacuum in society in achieving the Global Goals (Ghosh and Rajan, 
2019), being trusted more than government (Deloitte, 2018). Moreover, global competition and 
the need to find new customers have recently led to research on disruptive innovation in radically 
different or new markets for future competitive advantage (Hart et al., 2016). As a result, the 
market is shifting on the periphery with "sustainability-driven" business models (Haigh and 
Hoofman, 2012), stressing the importance of corporate citizenship (Deloitte, 2018).  
An increasing global understanding envisions the private sector as part of the global IDC system to 
reduce inequalities (Deloitte, 2018b) and alleviate social and environmental issues (Santos et al., 
2015, Haigh et al., 2015). Private for-profit firms have been increasingly engaged in pursuing 
sustainable development, which "could not be externally directed but requires local ownership and 
sufficient capacity to guide the process" (Fowler, 2013, p. 3). The acknowledgment of this new 
sentiment has led to several supranational and national innovations, such as the Agenda 2030 (UN, 
2015), the new European Consensus on Development (EU, 2017), and national legislation.  
In this vein, the Italian reform law 125/2014 of the international development cooperation system 
has introduced the concept of "Profit for Development." Coherently, the Italian Agency for the 
Cooperation and Development (Agenzia Italiana per la Cooperazione allo Sviluppo, hereafter AICS) 
has launched a program in 2017 to fund entrepreneurial projects that are in line with the Agenda 
2030. This has led to an annual bid to foster the engagement of the private sector in IDC.  
To be noted that the concept of profit-for-development, which is inspired by theories on inclusive 
business (IB) and inclusive business models (IBM), should be investigated from the perspective of 
hybrid organizations (Schoneveld, 2020) with particular reference to cross-sectoral (Austin and 
Seitanidi, 2012) or hybrid partnerships (Zhu and Sun, 2020). Thus, this paper aims at investigating 
the response of the Italian private sector to the challenges envisaged by the institutional changes 
in IDC towards the Profit for Development.  
The piece of research presented in this paper focuses on the outcome of the AICS bids of 2017, 
2018, and 2019. In particular, this paper analyses the projects that were submitted and those that 
were selected. We focus on the organizational challenges linked first to the capacity of firms to 
participate in the bid and then to the development of the project if selected. As part of the AICS 
team that collaborated in managing the bids, the authors had premium access to the call 
documentation. Thus, the analysis presented in this paper is based on primary and original data. 
The results show a limited response to the AICS call for action and a lack of capability to balance HR 
practices in dealing with the domestic and local workforce. Nevertheless, increasing attention of 
the private sector for the IDC is detectable, and some of the projects correctly target the sustainable 
development goals. This paper also discusses several limitations that should be addressed in the 
future while offering a novel interpretation and a theoretical contribution to the stream of research 
on hybrid partnerships. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
864 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2. Theoretical background 
2.1 International Development Cooperation 
We distinguish two major groups of actors that have been involved in the different stages in the 
evolution of IDC, namely: 1) Governments and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs); and 2) 
firms and private actors, both not-for-profit organizations (NPOs) and for-profit firms (FPOs). While 
the two groups have pursued independent actions for decades, the boundaries between the two 
streams have slowly blurred and converged in 2015, opening up opportunity spaces for hybrids 
(Holt and Littlewood, 2015). These may be defined as organizations "combining different logics of 
operation [...] for the bridging and blending of logics, traits, and ideas from the different 
organizational 'ideal types' they reflect" (Alexius and Furusten 2019, p. 549). As stressed by Austin 
et al. (2006, p. 372), "the distinction between social and commercial entrepreneurship is not 
dichotomous but rather more accurately conceptualized as a continuum ranging from purely social 
to purely economic. Even at the extremes, there are still elements of both". Moreover, it is possible 
to distinguish between 'organic hybrids' and 'enacted hybrids' (Doherty et al., 2014). This 
institutional change is due to two phenomena: 1) a pro-business zeitgeist (Dees, 1998); 2) the 
marketization of the non-profit sector (Eikenberry and Kluver 2004; Liu and Ko, 2012; Mullins et al., 
2012). We may synthesize this process as follow: Efficiency for NGO, "Humanization" for Private 
for-profit Enterprises, and it emerged as shown above.  
Started after WWII, International Development Cooperation (IDC) in the beginning and until the 
1970s was essentially a public action, devised, planned, funded, and implemented mainly by 
governments, state agencies, and intergovernmental (i.e., multilateral) institutions. Private for-
profit organizations (FPOs) had a secondary and limited role in IDC during that period, usually as 
contractors or providers. Later, since the 1970s, national and international civil society –private not-
for-profit organizations (NPOs) entered the stage (Wegner, 1993), often with humanitarian 
concerns and approaches, and with strong governmental support and sometimes direction.  
FPOs, especially large corporations, did engage –and do increasingly nowadays– in philanthropic 
initiatives (which partially overlaps with charity) in the so-called developing countries. However, we 
will not consider philanthropic initiatives in this paper as they should not be confused with genuine 
corporate social responsibility (Zamagni and Bruni, 2013).  
From a theoretical perspective, although ethical issues were embedded at the dawn of political 
economy (Smith, 1790), it is only since the 1980s that business ethics attracted increasing interest 
among corporations and scholars. This produced several concepts and approaches (Corporate 
Social Responsibility, Triple Bottom Line, Corporate Social Entrepreneurship, Shared Value Creation, 
Global Corporate Citizenship) that highlight the opportunities that emerge from the engagement 
of the private for-profit sector in IDC.  
The increased awareness of firms' social responsibility and other theoretical approaches suggested 
that FPOs could, and should, contribute to sustainable and inclusive development –besides 
economic growth– in the Global South while making profits. During the 2000s, thanks also to the 
UN Millennium Agenda and related MDGs, the two aforementioned factors converged to shape a 
widespread international consensus about the potential and possible positive role of FPOs in IDC. 
Some milestones of this process were (Knutsson, 2009): A) the UN Global Compact, a voluntary 
initiative launched in 2000, based on CEO commitments to align strategies and operations with 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
865 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
universal principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and take actions that 
advance societal goals; B) the 2002 UN World Summit on Sustainable Development in 
Johannesburg, where the Type 2 Partnership Initiatives were created; these initiatives, unlike 
traditional UN intergovernmental cooperation, include private companies; C) the Second High-Level 
Forum on Aid Effectiveness held in Paris in 2005, where, beyond ministers and officials from donor 
and recipient countries, also representatives of private companies participated. 
Finally, in 2015, at the end of the Millennium Agenda, the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development recognized the role of FPOs explicitly: "Private business activity, investment, and 
innovation are major drivers of productivity, inclusive economic growth, and job creation. We 
acknowledge the role of the diverse private sector, ranging from micro-enterprises to cooperatives 
to multinationals, and that of civil society organizations and philanthropic organizations in the 
implementation of the new Agenda."30  
2.2 Inclusive and sustainable business and Social Entrepreneurship for SDGs 
Prahalad and Hart (2002) clarified that FPOs have the opportunity to unlock the business potential 
through technological innovations that allow producing affordable products for the poor, untapping 
the fortune at the Base of the Pyramid (BoP). In other terms, FPOs may pursue globalization 
strategies pushing for inclusive growth, which "diminishes trade-offs between growth and 
inequality because the poor become enfranchised as customers, employees, owners, suppliers, and 
community members" (George et al., 2012, p. 662).  
Parallel with the Washington Consensus, the idea of inclusiveness in business emerged in the 1990s 
with Structural Adjustment Programs (SAPs) in developing countries (Likoko and Kini, 2017). MNCs 
are nowadays invited to look at globalization strategies through a new lens of inclusive capitalism 
(George et al., 2012; Yunus et al., 2012; Prahalad, 2009) capable of generating inclusive growth via 
Inclusive Business (IB) and Inclusive Business Model (IBM). The "inclusive business model" is defined 
by the UNDP «Growing Inclusive Markets» initiative as a commercially viable business model that 
benefits low-income communities by including them in the company's value chain as consumers, 
producers, entrepreneurs, or employees (UNDP, 2008). IB embraces shared value creation. 
Diminishing trade-offs between growth and inequality (George et al., 2012; UNDP, 2010), successful 
IBM are commercially viable business ventures that engage BoP populations, such as poor, 
disenfranchised people (Halme et al., 2012), or wasted human resources (Ranjatoelina, 2017). They 
are direct to those in social exclusion or vulnerability who cannot transact with commercial firms 
under standard commercial terms (Eldar, 2017).  
In light of the aforementioned peculiarities, the UNDP (2010) relates the concept of IB to two other 
concepts: Social Enterprise / Social Business (SE/SB) and Corporate (Social) Responsibility (CR/CSR). 
Even if the latter may boost development (Hopkins, 2012), it does not influence the core business; 
companies do not have to consider "inclusive businesses" just as peripheral CSR-projects but as a 
vehicle to future markets (UNDP, 2010). Au contraire, the common characteristic of SE and SB is 
that they have a transactional relationship – which can also be considered as a good measure of 
impact - with their beneficiaries, which can be either purchasers of the firms' goods/services or 
suppliers of inputs (including labor) to the firm (Eldar, 2017).  
 
30 (Paragraph 67 of the Declaration of Resolution A/RES/70/1) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
866 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Both SB and IB contribute to the creation of shared value. However, scholars and practitioners 
define and use the concept differently (Likoko and Kini, 2017). The two kinds are sometimes seen 
as opposing since they differ in some aspects, such as economic sustainability and value 
proposition. It is possible to consider Social Business as a Business for the Low Income Sector (LIS), 
while inclusive business is for the Low Income Community (LIC) (Michelini and Fiorentino, 2012).    
From the organizational point of view, SB and IB can be read from hybrid organizations' perspective 
(van der Byl and Slawinski, 2015). In fact, the IB experiences strategic and organizational tensions 
in an attempt to fairly balance social, environmental, and economic objectives (Schoneveld, 2020).  
Recent research has highlighted the positive nexus between Social Entrepreneurship, SDGs, and 
some related topics (e.g., Wang et al., 2020; Günzel-Jensen et al., 2020; Eichler and Schwarz, 2019; 
Littlewood and Holt, 2018; Quiroz-Nino and Murga-Menoyo, 2017; Doherty, 2018). There is also 
evidence that Hybrid Organizations play a relevant role in achieving the SDGs in domestic (Horne 
et al., 2020) and foreign issues (Conway et al., 2019). However, SDG applicability is still challenging 
for enterprises since it depends on quantifiable outcomes that reach SDGs targets and indicators. 
Not all firms can measure the plethora of benefits they bring to society (Tabares, 2020). As George 
et al. (2012) mentioned, a central question concerns its impact on the lives of the poor. Prahalad 
and others have argued that the main issue for reducing poverty is bringing the BoP into the market, 
regardless of the services or products sold. Research shows that this is not necessarily true (Karnani, 
2007; Banerjee and Duflo, 2011). Moreover, we lack a theory that identifies the structural and 
functional elements that make hybrid organizations more effective than others (Eldar, 2017). The 
construction of partnership appears to be paramount to seize the cross-sectoral (Austin and 
Seitanidi, 2012) or hybrid (Zhu and Sun, 2020) opportunities and overcome limits in the inclusion of 
the BoP in the value creation process, coordinating activities with various stakeholders present in 
different countries and effectively share information and knowledge about best practices with local 
partners (Brugmann and Prahalad, 2007). Therefore, in IDC, partnerships are crucial to 
implementing IB models and responding to a wide range of social problems while benefiting partner 
organizations. However, the use of these forms of collaboration is generally not widespread 
(Murphy et al., 2015), and the role of partnerships, given their importance for the development and 
implementation of IB, deserves to be further problematized (Schoneveld, 2020). In light of these 
trends, we posit the following research propositions: 
RP1: "What is the Italian trend towards the Profit for Development concept?"  
RP2: "Are the inclusive and sustainable business projects in the IDC comparable with hybrid models, 
and how effective are they?" 
 
2.3 Human Resource Management in Inclusive and Sustainable Business 
Internationalization and globalization and the emergence of the knowledge society make Human 
Resource Management (HRM) pivotal for companies' success and performances (Chlivickas, 2014). 
Three key dimensions – 1) human capital acquisition, 2) human capital development, and 3) human 
capital retention – are a measure of coherence and effectiveness of the company's operations and 
its missions (Harris and Kor, 2013). These aspects have to be respectful of exogenous factors such 
as laws and regulations, language, and cultural barriers that vary from region to region (Forbes, 
2011). Therefore, companies may face strategies and methodologies of doing business very 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
867 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
different from those they are accustomed to. Therefore, an effective combination of local and 
global knowledge is needed since financial capital is not enough to innovate inclusively; it is 
inadequate to improve the human condition in resource-scarce settings (George et al., 2012).  
Diversity and an inclusive workforce are crucial drivers of innovation and critical components of 
global success. Enterprises have to be culturally sensitive (Forbes, 2011) since there are many 
specific human resource system development characteristics in various countries and under 
different conditions (Chlivickas, 2014). Human capital development policies require culturally 
sensitive and creative solutions designed for specific contexts. For instance, Asia-Pacific companies 
are much more likely to have diversity programs related to age or nationality; European companies 
look at disability or sexual orientation (Forbes, 2011). Demographic factors cannot be 
overestimated: the global workforce is getting younger, older, and more urbanized. Millennials 
"don't want a career; they want an experience" (Deloitte, 2014, p. 3). The wellbeing of the worker, 
and therefore his commitment and loyalty, does not depend on a single characteristic of the activity 
but on a set of elements that must be integrated into the design of work itself rather than being 
addressed with adjacent programs (Deloitte, 2021). 
This shift toward a "human-centered approach" (ILO, 2019) requires a more flexible career 
management model, more oriented to the person than the organization. Success will reside in the 
psychological perception of the individual (Pelaez, 2019). 
Indeed, the HRM style will change accordingly to the enterprise we are looking to. Research on the 
private sector is abundant, but knowledge of social enterprises as a context of study for HRM is 
limited (Newman et al., 2015). Researchers have started inquiring about the applicability of 
frameworks developed from examining HRM in for-profit organizations (Roumpi et al., 2019). Even 
if essential human and financial capital inputs are pretty comparable between social and 
commercial entrepreneurship (Austin et al., 2006), in the former, the traditional employer-
employee relationship is replaced by the emergence of a diverse workforce ecosystem (Deloitte, 
2018). Moreover, the involvement of multiple stakeholders is a frequently occurring feature of 
governing social enterprises (Royce, 2007). Hybridity creates both challenges and opportunities, 
which, in turn, influence mission and resource mobilization (Doherty et al., 2014), shapes and goals 
that may reflect a tension between the social and commercial soul of the organization (Borzaga & 
Solari 2001; Dees, 1998). This may also be reflected in a more problematic definition of needed 
profiles because the tasks are difficult to standardize (complexity of relational and social work), and 
soft skills may be more important than hard skills. 
In some instances, IB may still use traditional frameworks of HRM, while SB/SE cannot. Borzaga and 
Solari (2001) stress the importance of HRM in SEs because of the existing internal management 
challenges. Companies need to build effective ongoing relationships with every segment of the 
workforce ecosystem (Deloitte, 2018). There is not one HRM system that applies to all situations; it 
is critical to pursue efficiency via enhancing people's preferences and the quality of intersubjective 
relationships (Amendola & Troisi, 2004). Therefore, depending on the workforce segmentation, 
organizations should use multiple systems of HRM practices simultaneously (Roumpi et al., 2019).  
Good recruitment is crucial, but it is only the starting point to be supplemented by significant 
internal development efforts: formal and informal training, which play complementary yet distinct 
roles in human capital development (Harris and Kor, 2013). Since "the power of teams comes from 
their ability to connect people with each other to unleash their collective capabilities" (Deloitte, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
868 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2021, p. 16), practices and training – formal and informal – aimed at developing a "Team 
reasoning/we-thinking" (Bacharach, 1995; Sugden, 1993) for a human focus enterprise able to 
reinvent itself on the back of perpetual disruption continually (Deloitte, 2021) seems more than 
necessary. As Dees (1998) pointed out, engineering a new organizational culture is anything but 
easy.  
All considered, this paper also sets the following research proposition: 
RP3: What HRM practices are used in the new inclusive business projects to account for the need for 
qualified human capital? 
 
3. Empirical context and methodology 
Italy undertook a reform of its development cooperation in 2014 (law 125/2014). Law 125 
anticipates the primary objectives and principles evoked in the 2015 Un Declaration, especially 
concerning the role of the private profit sector. In line with other important donor countries, the 
reform introduced the new Italian Agency for Development Cooperation (AICS), established in 
2016. Also, the new law "recognizes and supports firms' contribution to the development process 
of partner countries" (art. 27). Based on this critical institutional change, in 2017, AICS published its 
first call for development projects by private companies. The data presented in this paper have 
been collected through a thorough examination of the documents submitted by each applicant.  
Although the resources allocated to this call were relatively small compared to traditional 
cooperation channels (e.g., NGOs, Local Governments, Multilateral Organizations), the call 
represented a significant innovation in the Italian cooperation and Italian business environments. 
In fact, until 2017 –excluding a handful of firms– the Italian private for-profit sector had not shown 
a widespread interest in such projects. Furthermore, there is no well-established customary 
collaboration between Italian FPOs and NPOs in developing countries beyond philanthropy. 
Consequently, the 2017 AICS call for FPOs was an innovation and a great challenge, as the Italian 
context does not seem to be a breeding ground for such initiatives. In line with international best 
practices, the call showed a co-funding ratio required to the applicants (except start-up firms) of at 
least 50% of the project's total value. The call was formally launched by a public bid released at the 
end of July 2017; 25 projects were submitted in response to the call, and 13 were considered eligible 
for financing. Subsequent bids were issued in 2018 and 2019. The 2018 bid elicited 40 proposals 
and selected 23 projects; the 2019 bid received 52 proposals and selected 15 projects (Figure 1). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
869 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 1: trends of projects eligible per year 
The study was articulated in two phases. First, the author performed a desk analysis of all the 
project proposals submitted to the bids through text analysis and descriptive statistics. As a second 
step, the authors performed a quali-quantitative case study of the projects of the first bid that have 
already kicked off. The selection was justified by the need to collect data about the implementation 
of the projects, which in the case of the 2018 and 2019 bids has also been delayed due to the Covid-
19 pandemic outbreak.  
The primary data were collected through telephone semi-structured personal interviews with the 
managers responsible for the companies that participated in the bids. Seven out of the thirteen 
companies that started an inclusive business project following the first call of 2017 were included 
in the qualitative analysis. They represented a wide range in size and age, including big corporations 
and start-ups. The interview protocol focused on the general status of the project, with a specific 
focus on the balance of power, decision-making, and procedures between the organization in the 
home country and the establishments in loco.  
4. Discussion of the results 
First, it is interesting to discuss the projects that have been submitted in response to the call. To 
this end, the following section provides a brief overview of all the projects submitted, with a 
particular focus on those that were selected and funded.  
In response to the first public bid, AICS received proposals by 25 firms, of which two did not pass 
the administrative checks. Although the number of proposals is not high in absolute terms, in the 
light of previous caveats about the Italian environment and being this the first call of this type in 
the country, the number can be considered fair. A technical commission evaluated the 23 proposals 
and selected 13 of them. The fact that only 60% of submissions were selected depends mainly on 
most proposals' poor technical quality. The average technical score of the 23 proposals was 
45.9/100; nine proposals got a score below 50/100 –the minimum requirement– and therefore 
were not selected. Even the general quality of the chosen proposals was relatively low, as their 
average score was 60.4/100. Consequently, the Agency devoted great effort to communication 
activities to raise awareness of the potential benefits of the inclusive business projects for 
prospective applicants. These communication activities resulted in a higher number of projects 
submitted to the second bid and also a greater quality level of the projects. In fact, the average 
score of all the eligible projects raised to the value of 86,87/100. 
0
5
10
15
20
25
Bid 2017
Bid 2018
Bid 2019
Project per year

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
870 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The third bid was delayed due to the outburst of the Covid-19 pandemic, which could have caused 
a lower number of submissions. In fact, the first deadline was initially set on January 31, 2020, but 
it was postponed to June 15, 2020. The average score of the 15 projects that received positive 
assessments was 79,01.  
The detailed composition of these scores reveals the great difficulties of proponent firms in building 
good partnerships with both Italian and local organizations in designing inclusive projects that are 
economically sustainable and innovative. In turn, these problems reveal widespread insufficient 
expertise and capability of most Italian FPOs to formulate development cooperation projects and, 
therefore, catch emerging opportunities in low-income countries. As far as the destinated countries 
are concerned, Figure 2 shows the distribution of the funded projects considering all the bids. 
 
Figure 2: distribution of the projects per country, all bids 
It is also interesting to focus on the sectors represented by the funded projects (Table 1). 
Table 1: Description of the funded projects per type of applicants and per sector 
Bids 
Total 
Sector per types of applicants 
2017 
2018 
2019 
New projects proposed by established firms 
2 
10 
9 
21 
Agriculture 
2 
2 
4 
Agrifood 
 
1 
3 
4 
Cosmetics 
1 
1 
Healthcare 
1 
1 
Pyrethrum supply chain 
1 
1 
Renewable energy 
2 
2 
Social entrepreneurship support 
1 
 
 
1 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
Senegal
Tunisia
Kenya
Mozambique
Palestine
Tanzania
Uganda
Albania
Cameroon
DRC
Ethiopia
Ivory Coast
South Africa
Bosnia Herzegovina
Brazil
China
Cuba
Madagascar
Namibia
Niger
Togo

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
871 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Tourism 
1 
1 
Waste management 
1 
1 
Water purification 
1 
1 
na 
3 
3 
Training 
1 
1 
Start-ups 
4 
7 
3 
14 
Agriculture 
2 
1 
3 
Agrifood 
2 
1 
3 
Childhood accessories 
1 
1 
Fashion 
1 
1 
Fasshion 
1 
1 
Renewable energy 
1 
1 
Social entrepreneurship support 
1 
 
 
1 
Tourism 
2 
2 
Training 
1 
1 
Scaling-ups 
7 
6 
3 
16 
Agriculture 
1 
1 
Agrifood 
1 
1 
2 
Agroforestry 
1 
1 
2 
Climate change 
1 
1 
Energy 
1 
1 
Healthcare 
1 
1 
2 
ICT 
 
2 
 
2 
Renewable energy 
1 
1 
Social entrepreneurship support 
1 
1 
Tourism 
1 
1 
Waste management 
1 
1 
2 
TOTAL 
13 
23 
15 
51 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
872 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
Figure 3: SDGs addressed by  the applicants of the Bid 2019  
 
Figure 4: the hybridity of the proposals in the three years 
Since the peculiarity of international development cooperation projects is the construction of 
partnership both vertical (value chain perspective) and horizontal (civil society organizations), a 
further analysis concerns the level of organizational hybridization that the selected companies of 
the Bids have demonstrated through the proposals presented.  
From an organizational point of view, it is possible to analyze this ability to finalize positive business 
relationships, such as the ability to develop hybrid business models capable of pursuing business 
purposes, typical of for-profit companies, with holistic and positive sustainability impacts, typical of 
not-for-profit organizations.  
With an average score of 78% across the three calls, the partnerships built by the candidates show 
a mixed composition in which public, private and third sector parties play different roles, as shown 
in Figure 4 and Table 2. 
0,00%
5,00%
10,00%
15,00%
20,00%
25,00%
30,00%
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
SDGs addressed 
SDGs/mentions
% of projects
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
0123456789
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
2017
2018
2019
Hybridity of Proposals 
Projects
Hydrids
% H

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
873 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
With an average score of 78% in the three bids, partnerships built by the applicants show a mixed 
composition in which public, private and third sector parties play different roles (Table 2). 
Table 2: Hybridity of partnerships within the three years. 
Bids 
Projects  Hybrids 
% H 
Public actors Private actors Third sector 
2017 
13 
10 
76,92 
3 
0 
7 
2018 
20 
14 
70,00 
3 
14 
14 
2019 
15 
13 
86,67 
6 
10 
10 
 
The bid 2017 shows a clear dichotomy in partnership construction between private, public, and 
third sectors. However, this was reduced in the following bids, where most proposals further mixed 
and enriched types and number of partners (table 3).  
Table 3: composition of partnerships in the three years.  
BID 
Project 
type of partner 
N. of 
Partners 
 
Public  
private 
third sector  
2017 
1 
X 
  
  
2 
2 
 Not declared 
  
3 
  
  
X 
1 
4 
  
  
X 
1 
5 
  Not declared 
  
6 
X 
  
  
1 
7 
  
  
X 
1 
8 
  
  
X 
1 
9 
  
  
X 
1 
10 
 Not declared  
  
11 
X 
  
  
1 
12 
  
  
X 
2 
13 
  
  
X 
1 
2018 
1 
X 
X 
X 
6 
2 
  
  
X 
2 
3 
  
X 
X 
5 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
874 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
4 
  
  
X 
2 
5 
  
X 
  
1 
6 
  
X 
X 
3 
7 
X 
  
X 
4 
8 
  
X 
  
1 
9 
  
  
X 
2 
10 
  
X 
  
2 
11 
  
  
X 
1 
12 
  
X 
  
1 
13 
  
X 
X 
2 
14 
  
X 
X 
2 
15 
  
  
X 
2 
16 
X 
X 
X 
6 
17 
  
X 
X 
4 
18 
  
X 
X 
2 
19 
  
X 
  
1 
20 
  
X 
  
1 
2019 
1 
  
X 
X 
2 
2 
  
X 
  
1 
3 
X 
X 
  
2 
4 
X 
X 
  
6 
5 
  
  
X 
1 
6 
X 
X 
X 
3 
7 
X 
X 
X 
9 
8 
X 
  
X 
3 
9 
  
X 
X 
2 
10 
  
  
X 
1 
11 
  
X 
  
1 
12 
  
X 
X 
2 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
875 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
13 
  
  
X 
2 
14 
  
  
X 
1 
15 
X 
X 
  
2 
 
The co-funding rules of at least 50% led to another significant result in terms of private resources 
that have been allocated to the projects, and therefore to IDC, as shown in fig. 7 and 8.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7: Project Values and Co-funding  
 
Figure 8: the differentiation in enterprises contribution and AICS co-funding in the presence or not of start-
ups that are entirely funded.  
4.2 Qualitative analysis of the HRM practices 
With regards to the involvement of the local workforce in the different phases of the value chain, 
all the activities not strictly linked to the physical production of the goods were planned and 
developed in the domestic offices, and in several cases, the ad hoc opening of a local office of the 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
- € 
100.000,00 € 
200.000,00 € 
300.000,00 € 
400.000,00 € 
500.000,00 € 
600.000,00 € 
700.000,00 € 
800.000,00 € 
900.000,00 € 
1.000.000,00 € 
2 4 6 8 1012141618202224262830323436384042444648
Project Values, AICS Co-funding, % Co-funding
Project Value
AICS Co-funding
% cofunding

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
876 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
company to manage more closely all the logistics or bureaucratic activities, therefore relating to 
contracts or those concerning marketing and advertising maneuvers, as well as social 
communication. All tasks were assigned and carried out by the Italian staff or others by the 
company's project manager, who had received training in Italy.  
Regarding the recruitment and selection of personnel, in cases where the activity was large enough 
not to allow the company to work with part of its personnel by transferring them from Italy, the 
companies have primarily relied on local staff search intermediation services. After providing a list 
of the profiles and jobs they needed, they were contacted with a list of potential candidates, 
followed by face-to-face interviews, aptitude tests, and other tools that companies in traditional 
business activities usually use. 
In many cases, the training and retraining process of the personnel was managed directly by the 
companies. In most of the projects examined, the local workforce was unable with previous skills 
to carry out the task that would have been assigned or due to lack of methodological knowledge or 
knowledge of using, for example, the appropriate machinery. In general, the level of specialization 
has rarely been rated satisfactory by companies. Also, in this context, the practices and tools of 
training activities did not differ much from the usual ones of domestic businesses, if not in the very 
difference in the specialization of workers and farmers, in the different work culture, and conceiving 
an economic activity.  
As far as the human resources practices are concerned, it is worthy of focusing on recruitment.  
The recruitment process should consider both the needs of the company and the expectations of 
the candidates. In traditional business, the criterion for selecting workers is satisfied mainly by 
objective data (curricula vitae, letters of presentation, previous experience, technical skills 
acquired, etc.). In the inclusive business, the candidates' technical-productive skills should be 
pondered along with their psychological profile and how congruent this is with the company's needs 
and culture. Therefore, the method used in most cases, curricula screening (which assesses the 
suitability of candidates according to objective requirements such as the languages known or the 
level of education), was integrated with other evaluation methods. One of these, among the most 
used, is the motivational interview. During the recruitment phase, it makes it possible to 
simultaneously provide the organization and the person involved with precise information on their 
propensities, expectations, and beliefs. Other selection tools used are similar to the realities of the 
first and second sector, such as presentations, references, psycho-attitudinal tests.  
5. Conclusions 
Although it is not possible to assess the actual sustainability outcomes of the projects funded by 
AICS, the discussion of the preliminary data opens up to some conclusions. First, the relatively small 
number of applicants suggests that the private sector mostly neglects the business opportunities 
paired with international cooperation (RP1). According to Deloitte (2018b), even if a vast majority 
of businesses publicly support the SDGs, only a few believe the current programs and initiatives 
their businesses have set are capable of helping achieve the goals of the Agenda 2030.   
Second, not all the projects were in line with the principles of IDC, and in some cases, they were 
instead projects of internationalization (RP2). This implies that some private actors are not fully 
aware of the modern approaches to CSR principles, not to mention IDC principles. This is reflected 
by some proposals of the bids for 2017 and 2019. The last bid taken into consideration could have 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
877 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
also suffered the pandemic's effects on shrinking partnerships compared to the bid 2018. 
Notwithstanding, the hybridity of proposals is an increasing factor in terms of proposals and 
partnerships' heterogeneity (in number and type), overrunning an initial dichotomy 
(private/public/third sector) shown in the first bid. However, even if data show an increasing 
interest in the engagement of FPOs in IDC, proponents in most cases were not familiar with some 
peculiarities of hybrid models. For instance, there is still a managerial gap to be solved, especially 
when creating hybrid organizations and workforce management, which cannot be recruited and 
trained with traditional frameworks (RP3).  
All considered, our study shows that private sector engagement in IDC should be pursued both by 
raising the awareness of the market opportunities and by educating the private actors about the 
core principles of responsibility and international development cooperation to increase the quality 
level of such initiatives. 
References  
Alexius, S. and Furusten, S. (2020). Enabling Sustainable Transformation: Hybrid Organizations in 
Early Phases of Path Generation. J Bus Ethics 165, 547–563.  
Alexius, S., & Furusten, S. (2019). Managing Hybrid Organizations. London: Palgrave Macmillan. 
Austin, J. E., & Seitanidi, M. M. (2012). Collaborative value creation a review of partnering between 
non-profits and businesses: Part I. value creation spectrum and collaboration stages. Non-
profit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, 41(5), 726–758. 
Austin, J., Stevenson, H. and Wei–Skillern, J. (2006). 'Social and Commercial Entrepreneurship: 
Same, Different, or Both?', Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 30(1), 1–22. 
Bacharach, M. (1995). "Co-Operating without Communicating," London. 
Banerjee, A. and Duflo, E. (2011). Poor Economics: A Radical Rethinking of the Way to Fight Global 
Poverty. New York: Public Affairs. 
Blume L. and Voigt, S. (2007). The Economic Effects of Human Rights. Kyklos, 60: 509-538.  
Borzaga, C., & Solari, L. (2001). Management challenges for social enterprises. In The emergence of 
social enterprise (Vol. 333, No. 349, pp. 333–349). Routledge: Association with GSE 
Research. 
Brugmann, J., & Prahalad, C.K. (2007) Cocreating business's new social compact. Harvard Business 
Review, 85, 80–90. 
Cafferata R. (2009) Management in adattamento, Il Mulino, Bologna. 
Chlivickas E. (2014). International Cooperation and Innovations for Developing Human Resources 
System, Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, Volume 110, Pages 276-283. 
Conway, D., Robinson, B., Mudimu, P., Chitekwe, T., Koranteng, K., Swilling, M., (2019). Exploring 
hybrid models for universal access to basic solar energy services in informal settlements: 
case studies from South Africa and Zimbabwe. Energy Res. Soc. Sci. 56, 101202. 
Dees, JG (1998). The meaning of "social entrepreneurship." Comments and suggestions contributed 
from the Social Entrepreneurship Founders Working Group. Durham, NC: Center for the 
Advancement of Social Entrepreneurship, Fuqua School of Business, Duke University.  
Degnbol-Martinussen, J., & Engberg-Pedersen, P. (2003). Aid: understanding international 
development cooperation. Zed Books. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
878 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
DeLab (2017) Stato dell’arte del coinvolgimento del Privato Profit Italiano nella Cooperazione 
Internazionale secondo il modello del Business Inclusivo: dati, strumenti e processi di azione. 
Deloitte (2014) Engaging the 21st-century workforce, Global Human Capital Trends. 
Deloitte (2018). The business case for inclusive growth, January.  
Deloitte (2018b). The rise of social enterprise, Global Human Capital Trends 
Deloitte (2021) The social enterprise in a world disrupted, Global Human Capital Trends. 
Doherty, B. (2018), "Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment through Fair Trade Social 
Enterprise: Case of Divine Chocolate and Kuapa Kokoo", Entrepreneurship and the 
Sustainable Development Goals (Contemporary Issues in Entrepreneurship Research, Vol. 
8): 151-163. 
Doherty, B., Haugh, H., & Lyon, F. (2014). Social enterprises as hybrid organizations: A review and 
research agenda. International Journal of Management Reviews, 16(4), 417–436. 
Eichler, G.M., Schwarz, E.J., (2019). What sustainable development goals do social innovations 
address? A systematic review and content analysis of social innovation literature. Sustain. 
Times, 11, 522. 
Eikenberry, A.M., and. Kluver J.D. (2004). The Marketization of the Nonprofit Sector: Civil Society at 
Risk? Public Administration Review, 64: 132–140. 
Eldar O. (2017). The Role of Social Enterprise and Hybrid Organizations, Columbia Business Law 
Review, 92-194. 
Forbes (2011) Fostering innovation through a diverse workforse, Global Diversity and inclusion. 
Fowler, A. (2013). Striking a balance: A guide to enhancing the effectiveness of non-governmental 
organisations in international development. Routledge. 
George, G., McGahan, A.M. and Prabhu, J. (2012). Innovation for Inclusive Growth: Towards a 
Theoretical Framework and a Research Agenda. Journal of Management Studies, 49: 661-
683.  
Ghosh S. and Rajan J. (2019). The business case for SDGs: an analysis of inclusive business models 
in emerging economies, International Journal of Sustainable Development & World Ecology.  
Govindarajan, V., Ramamurti, R. (2011). Reverse innovation, emerging markets, and global 
strategy. Global Strategy Journal, 1(3‐4), 191-205. 
Günzel-Jensen, F., Siebold, N., Kroeger, A., Korsgaard, S., (2020). Do the United Nations' Sustainable 
Development Goals matter for social entrepreneurial ventures? A bottom-up perspective. 
J. Bus. Ventur. Insights 13, e00162. 
Haigh N. And Hoffman A.J. (2012). Hybrid organizations: The next chapter of sustainable business, 
Organizational Dynamics, Volume 41, Issue 2, 126-134. 
Haigh N., Walker J., Bacq S., and Kickul J. (2015). Hybrid organizations: Origins, strategies, impacts, 
and implications. California Management Review, 57(3), 5–12. 
Halme M., Lindeman S., and Linna P. (2012). “Innovation for Inclusive Business: Intrapreneurial 
Bricolage in Multination Corporations”, Journal of Management Studies, vol. 49, n°4, pp. 
743-784. 
Harris, D and Y Kor (2013). "The Role of Human Capital in Scaling Social Entrepreneurship." Journal 
of Management for Global Sustainability 2. 
Hart S., Sharma S. and Halme M. (2016). Poverty, business strategy, and sustainable development. 
Organ Environ. 29 (4):401–415.  
Holt D., & Littlewood D. (2015). Identifying, mapping, and monitoring the impact of hybrid firms. 
California Management Review, 57(3), 107–125. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
879 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Hopkins, M. (2012). Corporate social responsibility and international development: Is business the 
solution?. Routledge. 
Horne, J., Recker, M., Michelfelder, I., Jay, J., Kratzer, J., (2020). Exploring entrepreneurship related 
to the sustainable development goals - mapping new venture activities with semi-
automated content analysis. J. Clean. Prod. 242, 118052. 
ILO (2019) Work For A Brighter Future, Geneve. 
Karnani, A. (2007). 'Doing well by doing good – case study: "Fair & lovely" whitening cream'. 
Strategic Management Journal, 28, 1351–7. 
Kim, W. C., Mauborgne, R. (1997). Value Innovation: The Strategic Logic of High Growth. Harvard 
Business Review. January-February. 
Knutsson 
B. 
(2009), The 
Intellectual 
History of 
Development: Towards 
a 
Widening 
Potential Repertoire, Perspectives, No. 13, April, Göteborgs Universitet. 
Likoko E. and Kini J. (2017). Inclusive business—a business approach to development, Current 
Opinion in Environmental Sustainability, Volume 24, Pages 84-88, ISSN 1877-3435.  
Littlewood, D., Holt, D., (2018). How social enterprises can contribute to the sustainable 
development goals (SDGs) – A conceptual framework. Contemp. Issues Entrepreneurship 
Res., 8, 33–46. 
Liu, G. and Ko, W.-W. (2012). Organizational learning and marketing capability development: a 
study of the charity retailing operations of British social enterprise. Non-profit and 
Voluntary Sector Quarterly, 41, pp. 580–608. 
Michelini, L. and Fiorentino, D. (2012). "New business models for creating shared value", Social 
Responsibility Journal, Vol. 8 No. 4, pp. 561-577.  
Morioka S.N., Bolis I., Evans S. and Carvalho M.M. (2017). Transforming sustainability challenges 
into competitive advantage: multiple case studies kaleidoscope converging into sustainable 
business models. J Clean Prod. 167 (20):723–738.  
Mullins, D., Czischke, D. and van Bortel, G. (2012). Exploring the meaning of hybridity and social 
enterprise in housing organisations. Housing Studies, 27, pp. 405–417.  
Murphy, M., Arenas, D., & Batista, J. M. (2015). Value creation in cross-sector collaborations: The 
roles of experience and alignment. Journal of Business Ethics, 130(1), 145-162. 
Newman A., Mayson, S., Teicher, J., & Barrett, R. (2015). Special issue of international journal of 
human resource management: Recruiting, managing and rewarding workers in social 
enterprises. International Journal of Human Resource Management, 26(14), 1907–1909. 
Pelaez, P., Vali, N. and Honkonen, T. (2019). "What does it take to go big? Management practices 
to bring inclusive business to scale." Research Report, Business Call to Action. UNDP. 
Picciotto, R. (1995). Putting institutional economics to work: from participation to governance. The 
World Bank. 
Porter M. E., & Kramer, M. R. (2011). Creating shared value. Harvard Business Review, 89(1/2): 62-
77. 
Porter M.E. and Kramer, M.R. (2006). Strategy & Society: The Link between Competitive Advantage 
and Corporate Social Responsibility. Harvard Business Review, 84, 78-85. 
Prahalad, C. K. (2009). The fortune at the bottom of the pyramid, revised and updated 5th 
anniversary edition: Eradicating poverty through profits. FT Press. 
Prahalad, C. K., Hart, S. L. (2002). The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid, Strategy+ Business, 26: 
54–67. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
880 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Quiroz-Niño, C., Murga-Menoyo, M.A., 2017. Social and solidarity economy, sustainable 
development goals, and community development: the mission of adult education & 
training. Sustain. Times 9, 2164.  
Ranjatoelina, J. (2017). What is an inclusive business model? An ‘extended resource-based theory’ 
definition built on the investigation of three inclusive enterprises in France.  XXVIème 
conférence annuelle de l’Association Internationale de Management Stratégique (AIMS), 
Jun, Lyon, France. 
Roumpi, D, Magrizos, S, Nicolopoulou, K. (2019). Virtuous circle: Human capital and human resource 
management in social enterprises. Hum Resour Manage. 59: 401– 421.  
Royce, M. (2007). Using human resource management tools to support social enterprise: Emerging 
themes from the sector. Social Enterprise Journal, 3(1), 10–19. 
Santos F., Pache A.C. and Birkholz C. (2015). Making hybrids work: Aligning business models and 
organizational design for social enterprises. California Management Review 57 (3): 36–58. 
Schoneveld, G. C. (2020). Sustainable business models for inclusive growth: Towards a conceptual 
foundation of inclusive business. Journal of Cleaner Production, 124062. 
Smith A. (1790), The Theory of Moral Sentiments, Sixth Edition, Strahan and others., Edinburgh. 
Sugden, R. (1993). "Thinking as a Team: Toward an Explanation of Nonselfish Behavior," Social 
Philosophy and Policy, 10, 69-89. 
Tabares, S. (2021). Do hybrid organizations contribute to Sustainable Development Goals? Evidence 
from B Corps in Colombia, Journal of Cleaner Production, Volume 280, Part 1, 124615, ISSN 
0959-6526. 
Talke, K., Salomo, S., & Rost, K. (2010). How top management team diversity affects innovativeness 
and performance via the strategic choice to focus on innovation fields. Research 
Policy, 39(7), 907-918. 
UNDP (2008). Creating value for all: strategies for doing business with the poor. New York:UNDP. 
UNDP (2010). "Brokering Inclusive Business Models". New York: UNDP. 
van der Byl, C., & Slawinski, N., (2015). Embracing tensions in corporate sustainability: a review of 
research from win-wins and trade-offs to paradoxes and beyond. Organization and 
Environment 28 (1), 54-79. 
Wang X., Yuen K.F. , Wong Y.D. , Li K.L. (2020). How can the maritime industry meet Sustainable 
Development Goals? An analysis of sustainability reports from the social entrepreneurship 
perspective, Transportation Research Part D: Transport and Environment, Volume 78, 
102173, ISSN 1361-9209. 
Yunus M., Sibieude T. and Lesueur E. (2012). "Social Business and big business: innovative, 
promising solution to overcome poverty?", Field Actions Science Report, Special Issue 4, pp. 
68-74. 
Zamagni, S., & Bruni, L. (Eds.). (2013). Handbook on the economics of philanthropy, reciprocity and 
social enterprise. Edward Elgar Publishing. 
Zhou, W., & Rosini, E. (2015). Entrepreneurial team diversity and performance: Toward an 
integrated model. Entrepreneurship Research Journal, 5(1), 31-60. 
Zhu, R., & Sun, S. L. (2020). Fostering generative partnerships in an inclusive business model. 
Sustainability, 12(8), 3230. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
881 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Plastic Household Waste Valorization 
in Developing Countries:  
critical design elements for a sustainable and circular 
business ecosystem  
Milou Derks1,2,*, Henny Romijn2 
1Netherlands Organisation for Applied Scientific Research (TNO); 
2University of Technology Eindhoven;  
*milouderks@hotmail.com 
Keywords  
Waste valorization; sustainable business models; ecosystem perspective; circular economy; bottom 
of the pyramid; informal sector; developing countries 
Extended abstract 
Transitioning from a linear ‘take-make-dispose’ economy to a sustainable and circular economy 
focused on renewable resources and circular pathways, requires new business models valorizing 
what is currently considered as waste (Donner et al., 2021; Leder et al., 2020). Waste valorization 
does not only play an important role in the transition to a circular economy, it can also provide 
significant opportunities for improving livelihoods, generating jobs and improving living conditions 
in least-developed countries. As an example, Africa’s urban population is expected to double from 
now until 2050. This growth would be mainly concentrated in informal settlements, which is already 
the home to about 63% of urban population in least-developed countries (Bauer, 2020). New 
business models focused on valorization of waste can stimulate both informal and private sector 
involvement, relieving the pressure on local authorities to provide basic services such as waste 
management, which is already quite challenging because of insufficient resources and lack of 
managed disposal sites (Godfrey et al., 2017). 
Business models exist within (business) ecosystems. Stakeholders in the ecosystem have a large 
influence on an organization’s business model and often determine an organization’s success (Gradl 
& Jenkins, 2011). This study addresses the multifaceted problem of household plastic waste 
valorization in least-developed countries from a holistic ecosystem perspective. An ecosystem 
perspective is necessary to prevent partial solutions for waste valorization that do not address the 
root causes and to involve dynamics between actors in the ecosystem as an integral part. An 
ecosystem perspective on business models for the transition to are more circular waste 
management system has recently been applied by Kanda et al. (2021) who show that “ecosystems 
are a more appropriate concept to describe the high-level coordination between stakeholders 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
882 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
necessary to implement circular systems”, increasing the suitability to analyze, plan and 
communicate circular systems on an organizational level. We extend this knowledge by deriving 
important design factors for such circular business ecosystems, therefore adding towards the 
practical use of the insights of Kanda et al. (2021), by analyzing two waste business ecosystems in 
least-developed countries. 
The research objective is to derive important design factors that need to be taken into account to 
develop a socially and economically viable circular business ecosystem for plastic household waste 
valorization. To derive such design factors we build on business ecosystem research, which 
acknowledges several interconnected stakeholders, value networks, social and environmental 
issues as well as the local context (Peltola et al., 2016), to derive root causes for the current state 
of low waste valorization in least-developed countries and distill design elements for sustainable 
business models addressing plastic household waste valorization. To do this, we qualitatively 
examine the structure and process of plastic household waste value retention and capture in the 
current waste business ecosystems in urban areas in Malawi and Zambia. For each country 
extensive data collection consisting of questionnaires, interviews, focal group discussions, and 
stakeholder meetings, are conducted (many by the first author herself), to provide input for a 
thorough root cause analysis. Data collection is visualized in table 1. Qualitative data coding was 
used to analyze the data and to derive common themes and patterns to uncover root causes. The 
data could be grouped into four categories: infrastructural challenges, policy challenges, processor 
challenges and others. Malawi and Zambia were chosen, due to their close proximity, similar 
demographics (although Zambia is ahead in terms of economic development). Additionally, both 
have expressed their interest to work towards a circular waste management system and were 
willing to contribute in-kind to this study.  
The root cause analysis showed that for both countries plastic waste valorization seems stuck due 
to three root causes. First, policy focuses on regulation, i.e. “sticks” such as prohibitions and 
limitations, limiting options for plastic remanufacturers and recyclers to develop a profitable 
business case, instead of providing “carrots”, positive incentives throughout the value chain to 
stimulate plastic reduction, separation, collection and valorization. Second, it is challenging to 
secure sufficient volumes needed for profitability in  remanufacturing or recycling. There is hardly 
any separation of waste in both countries, due to lack of incentives for households to separate, 
insufficient resources to engage in collection in general, let alone separated collection (in Malawi 
20% of waste is collected in urban areas, in Zambia 45% is collected in urban areas, while in either 
country there is hardly any collection in rural areas), and most waste is dumped at open or illegal 
dumpsites. Plastics get contaminated at the households, during transport or at the dumpsite 
(mainly by decaying organics), decreasing their value, and plastics that still have value are buried 
quickly under new waste. Thus, at this moment, the only way that plastic waste can still be valorized 
is through collection by informal waste pickers at dumpsites, who account for 97% of all collected 
plastics. However, these only choose high-value easy-to-collect products and there is only a small 
collection window until the waste gets buried or contaminated beyond repair.  Third, margins on 
recycled plastic products are low, due to high electricity prices, absence of available technology 
within the country and high cost of securing enough plastic waste (Dijkstra et al., 2020).  
Application of a business ecosystem perspective on the root cause analysis, results in the following 
design elements for a sustainable business ecosystem addressing plastic household waste 
valorization in developing countries: (i) the role of the informal sector should not be 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
883 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
underestimated and should be properly incorporated in the value chain, (ii) a new actor is needed 
between collection services and waste disposal sites in the form of collective facilities to arrange 
for separating, aggregating and transferring waste to the recycling industry (Barnes et al., 2021). 
Only waste that has insufficient value is then transferred to disposal sites. (iii) an open dialogue is 
needed between the private and public sector in which policy not only regulates but also stimulates 
the private sector via synergistic carrots and sticks, and (iv) upstream value chains should have a 
decentralized character, stimulating communities to invest in waste separation and collection. 
Insights from this study show that an ecosystem perspective on circular waste valorization leads to 
meaningful results in least-developed countries and concrete implications for business model 
design to create circular ecosystems. Additionally, our insights can help entrepreneurs by defining 
and adapting their waste valorization strategies within the local context and help them shift from 
linear value chains to a circular system, it can also help policy makers in understanding barriers 
experienced with valorization in the sector, thus stimulating them to streamline policy with private 
sector needs. We conclude that individual businesses need to evolve towards a more dynamic and 
integrated business model in which separation, collection and valorization are closely connected.  
TABLE 9: DATA COLLECTION METHODS FOR MALAWI AND ZAMBIA 
STAKEHOLDERS 
Tools used 
Malawi 
Zambia 
Local Authorities  
Questionnaires and interviews 
10 
2 
Government Departments/ Institutions 
Interviews/ 
Questionnaires 
3 
2 
NGOs 
Interviews/ 
Questionnaires 
5 
4 
Academia 
Questionnaires 
3 
0 
Companies + Business Council for Sustainable 
Development in Zimbabwe 
Interviews/ 
Questionnaires 
15 
10 
Household Waste Samples collected and 
characterized (* Used Data Collectors) 
Sampling kits  
(e.g scales, gloves, waste bags) 
180 
90 
Household questionnaires administered 
(*Used data collectors) 
Questionnaires 
300 
273 
Learning visits to companies active in waste 
valorization 
Learning visits 
4 
8 
Focal group discussions with companies active in 
waste valorization 
Focal group discussion 
0 
2 
Stakeholder meetings with 20+ private and public 
parties  
Stakeholder meeting 
2 
2 
TOTAL 
522 
393 
Acknowledgements 
The data collection in this paper has partly been funded by the Climate Technology Center and 
Network (CTCN). 
References  
Barnes, K., Blaauw, D., Schenck, R., & Pretorius, A. (2021). Buyback centres in Cape Town: the key integration 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
884 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
point between formal and informal sectors in the waste economy of the Western Cape. GeoJournal. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10708-020-10351-9 
Bauer, G. K. (2020). Digital solutions to improve basic service provision to the urban poor. Field Actions Science 
Report, 2020(Special Issue 22). 
Dijkstra, H., van Beukering, P., & Brouwer, R. (2020). Business models and sustainable plastic management: 
A 
systematic 
review 
of 
the 
literature. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
258. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.120967 
Donner, M., Verniquet, A., Broeze, J., Kayser, K., & De Vries, H. (2021). Critical success and risk factors for 
circular business models valorising agricultural waste and by-products. Resources, Conservation and 
Recycling, 165. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2020.105236 
Godfrey, L., Muswema, A., Strydom, W., Mamafa, T., & Mapako, M. (2017). Co-operatives as a development 
mechanism to support job creation and sustainable waste management in South Africa. 
Sustainability Science, 12(5). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11625-017-0442-4 
Gradl, C., & Jenkins, B. (2011). Tackling barriers to scale: From inclusive business models to inclusive business 
ecosystems. CSR Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School, Cambridge MA. 
Kanda, W., Geissdoerfer, M., & Hjelm, O. (2021). From circular business models to circular business 
ecosystems. Business Strategy and the Environment, 30(6). https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2895 
Leder, N., Kumar, M., & Rodrigues, V. S. (2020). Influential factors for value creation within the Circular 
Economy: Framework for Waste Valorisation. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 158. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2020.104804 
Peltola, T., Aarikka-Stenroos, L., Viana, E., & Mäkinen, S. (2016). Value capture in business ecosystems for 
municipal solid waste management: Comparison between two local environments. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 137. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.07.168 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
885 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Community-supported business 
models  
 
Michaela Hausdorf1*, Jana-Michaela Timm1, Katharina 
Zimmermann1 
1Hamburg University 
*michaela.hausdorf@uni-hamburg.de   
Extended abstract 
In the face of worldwide societal challenges, exploring resilient and sustainable ways of doing 
business becomes increasingly important. Community-supported businesses 31  (CSB) gradually 
attract scholarly attention as a sustainable alternative to conventional businesses (Bazzani et al., 
2013; Bolton et al. 2016; Cristiano, 2021; Francis et al., 2005; Medici et al. 2021; Salladarré et al. 
2018; Soley et al. 2019).  
However, little is known about CSB’s underlying business models. Understood as sustainable 
business models (Aagaard et al., 2021; Lüdeke-Freund et al. 2018; Lüdeke-Freund, 2010; Stubbs & 
Cocklin, 2008), community-supported business models (CSBM) describe a businesses’ core 
architecture. This architecture encompasses three elements: value proposition, creation and 
capture (Bocken et al., 2013; Fielt, 2013). A blend, fit, or balance between these elements is crucial 
for a business model’s success (Fielt, 2013; Mahadevan, 2000; Payne et al., 2020; Sjödin et al., 
2020). In this research, we explore CSBM by analysing how CSB propose, create and capture value.  
To do so, we apply a four-stage process: sampling (Saunders et al., 2009; Saunders & Lewis; 2017), 
data collection (Glaser & Strauss, 2010; Glaser, 2001), data analysis (Gioia, 2021; Gioia et al., 2013; 
Kuckartz, 2020; Mayring & Fenzl, 2019), and typology formation (Kelle & Kluge, 2010; Kluge, 2000). 
First, we identify 24 initiatives from two major CSB networks in Germany: MYZELIUM and CSX 
Netzwerk. The 24 CSB stem from various business fields like food, health, or energy. Second, we 
collect secondary material for each CSB by screening their websites, newspaper, magazine and blog 
articles, as well as transcribed podcast records. Third, we work through the 67 documents with 
 
31 Community-supported businesses are not to be confused with community-based businesses (CBB). In CBB, 
a group of people mutually establishes a business, usually to revitalise regions (Peredo & Chrisman, 2006). 
Consequently, CBB are found by a community of people (Bacq et al., 2020). In contrast, CSB are found for a 
community of people. Usually, single entrepreneurs or small teams create CSB (Löbbering 2018; Rommel 
2017). Similarly, CSB are not to be confused with cooperatives. Cooperatives are democratically owned by 
their members (Boone & Özcan, 2014; Schneiberg, 2013). Again, these are controlled by a community of 
people (Bacq et al., 2020). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
886 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
qualitative content analysis to analyse how CSB propose, create and deliver value. Fourth, we 
empirically develop a typology of CSBM (Kelle & Kluge, 2010). 
We identify eight dimensions in which value proposition, creation and capture in CSBM differ: the 
role of community, impact orientation, participation of members, key activities, process 
transparency, financial contribution, financial transparency, and needs orientation (see figure 1). 
Moreover, we develop a typology encompassing three types of CSBM: utilitarian, relational and 
hybrid CSBM (see figure 2). Utilitarian CSBM understand community as a means to achieve a specific 
value in value proposition. This type of CSBM creates value under low participation of members 
and captures value through a fixed or staggered contribution. Relational CSBM understand 
community as an end in itself, create value under high participation of members and capture value 
with a solidary contribution. Hybrid CSBM possess utilitarian and relational attributes in equal parts. 
In value proposition and value creation, this type is rather similar to relational CSBM, whereas value 
capture resembles utilitarian CSBM.  
 
Figure 1 Dimensions and attributes of the 24 CSB in our sample 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
887 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
Figure 2 Typology of community-supported business models  
Our findings indicate that utilitarian and relational CSBM possess a ‘balance’ or ‘fit’ (Fielt, 2013; 
Mahadevan, 2000; Payne et al., 2020; Sjödin et al., 2020) between value proposition, creation and 
capture. For example, relational CSBM put the community at the heart of each business model 
element. They understand community as an appreciated goal in value proposition, put community 
building at the core of value creation and conduct a solidary pricing model in value capture that 
might depend on mutual trust and a feeling of belonging. Similarly, utilitarian CSBM noticeably 
intertwine value proposition, creation and capture. They focus on creating products and services in 
each business model element. As community building plays a minor role, they get along with lower 
levels of process and financial transparency. As hybrid CSBM combine attributes from both 
utilitarian and relational CSBM, it seems that there is a mismatch or imbalance between the 
sustainable business model elements. For example, hybrid CSBM put effort into community 
building and actively integrate their members into value creation. However, they possess low levels 
of process and financial transparency in value capture. Although they have the potential to conduct 
bidding rounds for solidary contributions, they work with fixed contributions. Further analysis 
would be valuable to understand this phenomenon. 
 
We contribute to the current research debate on sustainable business models by spotlighting CSBM 
as sustainable business models. Moreover, we contribute to the research discussion on CSB by 
showing that there is not only one type of CSBM but three types that differ in value proposition, 
creation and capture: relational, utilitarian and hybrid CSBM. By presenting these three types, we 
enable scholars to be more precise and define their research subject more clearly. Becoming aware 
of the underlying type of CSBM allows scholars to explore the outcomes of CSB in terms of 
sustainability. The three types of CSBM may bear different implications for CSB’s environmental, 
social and economic sustainability. Finally, we contribute to the broader scholarly debate on value 
elements by introducing new dimensions and attributes that describe value proposition, creation 
and capture.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
888 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Great societal challenges demand policymakers to strike new paths. As CSBM are environmentally, 
socially and economically more sustainable than conventional business models, we recommend 
policymakers to become aware of this alternative to conventional business models. We invite 
policymakers to seriously consider CSB and CSBM in designing their political activities.  
Keywords  
Community-supported business, community-supported business models, sustainable business 
models, business model innovation towards sustainability, typology  
References  
Aagaard, A., Lüdeke-Freund F. & Peter Wells, P. (2021) Business models for sustainability 
transitions: How organisations contribute to societal transformation. London, Palgrave 
Macmillan. 
Bacq, S. C., Hertel, C. J., Lumpkin, G. T. (2020) Societal impact at the nexus of entrepreneurship and 
community - Taking stock and looking ahead. Academy of Management Annual Meeting 
Proceedings. 20 (1), 13916.  
Bazzani, C., & Canavari, M. (2013) Alternative agri-food networks and short food supply chains: a 
review of the literature. Italian Journal of Food Science. 11-34. 
Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2013) A value mapping tool for sustainable business 
modelling. Corporate Governance. 13 (5), 482-497. 
Bolton, A. E., Dubik, B. A., Stoll, J. S., & Basurto, X. (2016) Describing the diversity of community 
supported fishery programs in North America. Marine Policy. 66, 21-29. 
Boone, C., & Özcan, S. (2014) Why do cooperatives emerge in a world dominated by corporations? 
The diffusion of cooperatives in the US bio-ethanol industry. Academy of Management 
Journal. 57 (4), 990-1012. 
Cristiano, S. (2021) Organic vegetables from community-supported agriculture in Italy: Emergy 
assessment and potential for sustainable, just, and resilient urban-rural local food 
production. Journal of Cleaner Production, 292, 126015. 
Fielt, 
E. 
(2013) 
Conceptualising 
business 
models: 
Definitions, 
frameworks 
and 
classifications. Journal of business models, 1 (1), 85-105. 
Francis, C., Lieblein, G., Steinsholt, H., Breland, T. A., Helenius, J., Sriskandarajah, N., & 
Salomonsson, L. (2005) Food systems and environment: Building positive rural-urban 
linkages. Human Ecology Review, 60-71. 
Gioia, D. A., Corley, K. G., & Hamilton, A. L. (2013) Seeking qualitative rigor in inductive research: 
Notes on the Gioia methodology. Organizational research methods. 16 (1), 15-31. 
Gioia, D. (2021) A systematic methodology for doing qualitative research. The Journal of Applied 
Behavioral Science. 57 (1), 20-29. 
Glaser, B. (2001) The grounded theory perspective: Conceptualization contrasted with description. 
Mill Valley, Sociology Press. 
Glaser, B. G., & Strauss, A. L. (2010) Grounded Theory: Strategien Qualitativer Forschung. Bern, 
Huber. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
889 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Kelle, U. & Kluge, S. (2010) Vom Einzelfall zum Typus. Wiesbaden, VS Verlag für 
Sozialwissenschaften.  
Kluge, S. (2000). Empirisch begründete Typenbildung in der qualitativen Sozialforschung. Forum 
Qualitative Sozialforschung. 1 (1), pp. 1-11 
Kuckartz, U. (2020) Typenbildung. In: Mruck, K. (eds.) Handbuch qualitative Forschung in der 
Psychologie. Wiesbaden, Springer, pp. 795-812. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2010) Towards a conceptual framework of 'business models for sustainability'. 
In: Huisingh, D., Tukker, A., Lozano, R., Quist, J. (eds.) ERSCP-EMSU conference: Knowledge 
collaboration & learning for sustainable innovation, 25-29 October 2010, Delft, 
Netherlands. pp. 25-29. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Dembek, K. (2017) Sustainable business model research and practice: 
Emerging field or passing fancy?. Journal of Cleaner Production. 168, 1668-1678. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L., & Breuer, H. (2018) The sustainable business 
model pattern taxonomy - 45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model 
innovation. Sustainable Production and Consumption. 15, 145-162. 
Löbbering, S. (2018) Zukunftsfähige Wirtschaftsgemeinschaften - Übertragung des Community 
Supported Agriculture-Ansatzes (CSA) auf das Bäckerhandwerk (CSB). Münster, 
Fachhochschule Münster.  
Mahadevan, B. (2000) Business models for Internet-based e-commerce: An anatomy. California 
Management Review. 42 (4), 55-69. 
Mayring, P., & Fenzl, T. (2019) Qualitative Inhaltsanalyse. In: Baur, N., & Blasius, J. (eds.) Handbuch 
Methoden der empirischen Sozialforschung. Wiesbaden, Springer, pp. 633-648.  
Medici, M., Canavari, M., & Castellini, A. (2021) Exploring the economic, social, and environmental 
dimensions of community-supported agriculture in Italy. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
316, 128233. 
Payne, A., Frow, P., Steinhoff, L., & Eggert, A. (2020) Toward a comprehensive framework of value 
proposition development: From strategy to implementation. Industrial Marketing 
Management. 87, 244-255. 
Peredo, A. M., & Chrisman, J. J. (2006) Toward a theory of community-based enterprise. Academy 
of management Review. 31 (2), 309-328. 
Rommel, M. (2017) Zukunftsfähige Wirtschaftsgemeinschaften (CSX) – Übertragung der CSA-Logik 
auf andere Versorgungsfelder. Oldenburg, Carl von Ossietzky Universität Oldenburg.  
Salladarré, F., Guillotreau, P., Debucquet, G., & Lazuech, G. (2018) Some good reasons for buying 
fish exclusively from community-supported fisheries: The case of Yeu Island in France. 
Ecological economics. 153, 172-180. 
Saunders, M., & Lewis, P. (2017) Doing research in business and management. Harlow, Pearson. 
Saunders, M., Lewis, P., & Thornhill, A. (2009) Research methods for business students. Harlow, 
Pearson. 
Schneiberg, M. (2013) Movements as political conditions for diffusion: Anti-corporate movements 
and the spread of cooperative forms in American capitalism. Organization Studies. 34 (5-
6), 653-682. 
Sjödin, D., Parida, V., Jovanovic, M., & Visnjic, I. (2020) Value creation and value capture alignment 
in business model innovation: A process view on outcome‐based business models. Journal 
of Product Innovation Management. 37 (2), 158-183. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
890 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Soley, G., Hu, W., & Vassalos, M. (2019) Willingness to pay for shrimp with homegrown by heroes, 
community-supported fishery, best aquaculture practices, or local attributes. Journal of 
Agricultural and Applied Economics. 51 (4), 606-621. 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
891 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Determinants of Circular Business 
Model: Case Study of Developing 
Nation   
 
Dr. Aamar Ilyas1,*, Abdullah1, 
1University of Central Punjab, Lahore 
*aamar.ilyas@ucp.edu.pk 
Extended abstract 
In present decade, the circular economy has become a hot subject for discussion by economists in 
association with political agencies, such as international organization like OECD, United Nations, Eu, 
and different national/international financial institutions, representing a response for a sustainable 
growth (WHO, 2018; UN, 2020; EU, 2014; OECD, 2019).  But in reality, linear economy has promoted 
the inequalities, food insecurity, and affecting the quality of life of many peoples (UN, 2020).  These 
is no doubt that the economic growth of our planet has increased considerably in the last one 
hundred years at an increased speed, soon after the Second World War. This development has been 
confused and fast: every country producing almost everything with no planning. Just as an example, 
each EU citizen generates more than 4.5 tons of waste annually and almost half of it is disposed of 
in landfill sites! [1, 2]. Today we are in presence of a mature economy of the world. In recent years, 
entrepreneurship is treated as an important force that creates the jobs and enhances the 
productivity, stimulates economic growth, encourages innovation and also work for environment. 
So many entrepreneurs are working in circular economy. Therefore, the purpose of this study to 
explore the motives of circular entrepreneurs, why entrepreneurs engage in circular 
entrepreneurship in the lens of individual, institutional, and structural. In this paper, factor model 
is applied to investigate the important determinants of circular entrepreneurship.  
We collected survey-based data from 10 markets of Gujranwala city of Pakistan. Snowball sampling 
technique used for picking the respondents because no comprehensive list of circular 
entrepreneurships is existing in these markets or in chamber of commerce. Sample size was 600 
were conducted in each market with the help of four trained interviewers. Shockingly, this study 
reveals that only institutional factors are not serious but individual and structural factors are play a 
positive role to boost the circular entrepreneurial culture, at least in developing nations. The 
outcomes of this paper will help policymakers who work to promote the circular economy. Findings 
verified that individual and structural factors also have a significant role in the development of 
circular entrepreneurial culture. Government agencies can be considered important factors for 
taking policy decision to boost circular entrepreneurial practices in developing nations. This study 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
892 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
is pioneer to factorize the individual, structural, and institutional based determinants to explore the 
most important reasons for circular entrepreneurship.  
 Keywords  
Circular economy, circular entrepreneurship, determinants, developing nations, pakistan 
References  
WHO. Circular Economy and Healt: Opportunity and Risks. World Health Organization, 2018, EU office, 
Copenhagen, Danmark. 
EC. The Circular Economy. Connecting, creating and conserving value, 2014. EU Publication Office ISBN 978 
92-79-37819-2. 
OECD. The Circular Economy in Cities and Regions, 2019, OECD Report, Centre for Entrepreneurship. 
www.oecd.org/cfe (Accessed February 17, 2020). 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
893 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Social Partnership with Multinational 
Enterprises (MNEs), and Micro, 
Small, and Medium Enterprises 
(MSMEs) in post-COVID times in an 
emerging economy – Integrating 
volunteering and social 
entrepreneurship as newer strategic 
healthcare model to achieve 
Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs) 
 
Pinaki Das Gupta1,*, Sampada Kumar Dash1, P.V.K. Sasidhar2 
1International Management Institute, New Delhi; 2School of Extension 
and Development Studies, Indira Gandhi National Open University 
*pinaki@imi.edu 
Extended Abstract 
In the post-pandemic times, an emerging economy like India requires the gainful engagement 
of the youth, the aspiring population that contributes to more than 25% of the total population. 
An empowerment and capability enhancement framework can support and built an 
enterprising temperament among them. However looking at the core Government priorities in 
the present context, we proposed a new normal strategic sustainable social model involving the 
MSMEs, MNEs, and Community to address the need for social progress, sustainability, equity, 
and justice. To the best of the author’s knowledge, this is a first-of-its-kind study in India. The 
research outcome may further help eradicate poverty, bringing better health, resilience, and 
prosperity to the country.  
Context: 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
894 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Health-related Sustainable Development Goals-3, (SDG-3) denote “Ensure healthy lives and 
promote wellbeing for all at all ages” (UNITAR, 2020), is compromised due to the unprecedented 
COVID 19 pandemic in the recent past. India is an emerging economy with a more than 1.35 billion 
population. There is a vast socio-economic, political, and geographic diversity in the country. 
Linguistic barriers, cultural distinctiveness, and demographic transitions are some of the crucial 
factors impacting daily life, influencing on health and wellbeing behaviors of  this diverse population 
in the post-pandemic times. Despite a well-crafted fiscal and monetary policy support, there has 
been a 7.3 to 12.5 percent contraction of India’s economy in FY 2021-22 due to the COVID-19 
pandemic. (World Bank, 2021). The pandemic has exacerbated pre-existing global problems, but 
solutions to many of those challenges already exist all around the world. However, in many cases, 
local solutions miss out on their potential by not being scaled up globally and thereby prevented 
from maximizing their impact for SDG achievement. 
COVID-19 is an infectious disease spread rapidly across the globe by the Severe acute respiratory 
syndrome corona virus 2 (SARS‑CoV‑2) or nCOV virus, discovered in the year 2019 (WHO, 2020). 
This is further declared a global pandemic by World Health Organization. Subsequent mutated 
nCOV strains across the globe had an unprecedented impact, implicating socio-economic, political, 
technological, environmental, and legal (regulatory) disruptions worldwide (UNCTAD, 2020). The 
WHO regions and the countries from developing, developed, emerging, and rising economies were 
severely affected by this pandemic.  
Globally, as of 08 April 2022, there have been 494,587,638 confirmed cases of COVID-19, including 
6,170,283 deaths reported by WHO. India reported 4300 067 confirmed cases of COVID 19 with 
521573 deaths (WHO, 2020a).  
Though it is seen in the third wave most of the people infected with the mutated strains of COVID-
19 virus experienced mild to moderate respiratory illness and get recovered without requiring 
special treatment. Older people and those with underlying medical problems are more likely to 
develop serious illnesses. To prevent and slow down the transmission of the virus and for 
preventive measures community and individuals should be well informed about the COVID-19 virus 
and should be abiding by preventive rules. Disease preparedness includes surveillance, testing and 
case management, infection prevention and control, contact tracing, and risk communication, 
community awareness and engagement play an important role in mitigating disease spread risks. 
(WHO,2020b).  
The pandemic has significant health implications and mortality across the globe and in India. The 
country had taken swift and stringent public health actions. That includes lockdowns, citizen 
curfews, stopping of mass religious and social gatherings, closure of educational institutions, and 
restrictions on the movement of the public to prevent the spread of the infections during the first 
wave of COVID 19 pandemic. The Government advisories played a significant role in addressing the 
community's responsibilities. The pandemic crisis requires cumulative concerns and responsibilities 
both from the individuals and the community. The social leaders, public health professionals, health 
care managers, health care workers (HCWs), community health workers, and all other stakeholder 
collaborations and joint action can help mitigate such risks in the future. Volunteering as a social 
health measure is an important aspect of creating awareness, and engagement, to remove 
structural barriers and stigma in the community (Marston, C. et.al, 2020). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
895 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Disease spread is either due to wide misinformation or limited information on the disease. The 
hurdle to cost-effective disease prevention and control practices in communicable and non-
communicable diseases in India is the lack of public awareness of risk factors and healthy behaviors 
(Hunter & Reddy, 2013). Awareness, education, and basic understanding of disease lead to 
responsible behaviors by the community. This can minimize the disease burden on the individuals 
as well as on the diseased segment (Sharma, 2015). The effectiveness of disease awareness 
advertising if sponsored by credible organizations and regulated by the government, will have a 
better impact on Society as per the physician's view. (Banerjee & Dash 2013). 
Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the manufacturing and service sector 
contributed significantly to the growth of the global value chain (GVCs). The MSMEs play a vital role 
in the wider eco-system of multinational enterprises (United Nations, 2020). India has 
approximately 63.4 million MSMEs as of the year 2019. About 20% of MSMEs are based out in rural 
areas, which helps in rural employment. The MSMEs contribute approximately 24.63% of the GDP 
from service activities. (CII, 2019). Last-mile delivery has become easier due to better roads, while 
the KYC norm has made loans for SMEs easy. (Kashyap, 2020). These MSMEs can further be 
integrated more profoundly into the volunteering networks. 
India has a 365 Million Young Population as of 2018 (UNFPA, 2018) growing, and India is home to a 
fifth of the World's youth population. Post pandemic unemployment rate for India is 7.80% for the 
year 2021. The urban population was affected more in context to the rural population. The 
unemployment rate for urban is 9.04%, whereas, for the rural, this is  7.23% (CMIE, 2021). Youth 
engagement is an important driver in contributing to the progress of any country. Volunteering can 
be viewed as a new social dimension to integrate youths into various activities to achieve social 
progress in terms of better health, education, poverty eradication, sustainability, equity, and social 
justice. Collaborations, alliances, and partnerships can help re-energizing volunteering to achieve 
the SDGs (UN GTM, 2020). Sustainable business ventures are influenced by internal factors, such as 
strengths and weaknesses, rather than external factors, such as opportunities and threats, to 
engage prospective entrepreneurs. (Stefan et.al., 2021). Volunteering through united initiatives by 
combining local volunteering forces with global and vis-e-versa, addressing the minimal financial 
needs can further be an integrative approach and willingness of people to accelerate the progress 
in the post-pandemic times.  
Based on the context, we proposed a newer sustainable social model involving the service sector 
MSMEs, MNEs with community volunteering as a new partnership model to address the need for 
social progress, sustainability, equity, and justice. It can further help eradicate poverty, bringing 
better health, resilience, and prosperity to the country.  
Technical Approach and Methodology 
We conducted a systematic desk research review, followed by qualitative research using an in-
depth analysis (IDIs) tool involving the key stakeholders from the MNEs, MSMEs, and the 
community. Published articles and gray literature searched on poverty, unemployment, and social 
entrepreneurship models in an emerging economy like India. The search consideration included 
social, political, economic, and cultural contexts. The respondents were from the healthcare 
settings, NGOs, pharmaceutical organizations, and the key opinion leaders from the community for 
the qualitative research. We conducted online, telephonic, or face-to-face IDIs due to prevailing 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
896 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
COVID restrictions. The qualitative insights were analyzed in keeping the fast-paced complex 
development context in the post-pandemic times. Framing of the works was done involving the 
COVID 19 context challenges. The proposed model was developed after stakeholders’ 
recommendations and suggestions.  
Preliminary Findings:  
Our preliminary findings suggested a pertinent role of MNEs, MSMEs, and Community partnerships 
in developing a community partnership entrepreneurship model. Emergence and acceptance of 
regional value chain integrating Global Value Chain to the last-mile delivery of public health goods, 
pharmaceuticals, and other health accessories require understanding, awareness, and availability, 
where community-driven entrepreneurship models have a definite role. The emerging social 
partnership model may engage people and youth as volunteers, ensuring global sustainable 
development efforts to achieve SDG 3 towards better health in the post-pandemic times.  
Study Limitations:  
The existing research requires a quantitative study involving a large-scale sample survey which can 
be more pertinent from a broader policy perspective.  
Originality: 
To the best of the author’s knowledge, this is the first of its kind study in India, on the social 
entrepreneurship and volunteering partnership model involving MSMEs, MNEs, and communities 
towards resilience, better health, social progress, equity, and justice in the post-pandemic times. 
Keywords  
Social Entrepreneurship Partnership Model, Volunteering, MSMEs, MNEs, Social Equity, Justice, 
Poverty 
References 
Banerjee, S., & Dash, S. K. (2013). Effectiveness of disease awareness advertising in an emerging economy: 
Views of health care professionals of India. Journal of Medical Marketing, 13(4), 231-241. 
CII and Resurgent India (2019). MSME Growth Driver of Indian Economy. July 2019, available 
at https://www.resurgentindia.com/pdf/1145452775MSME%20Growth%20Driver%20of%20Indian
%20economy.pdf , accessed on January 25, 2022 
Hunter, D. J., & Reddy, K. S. (2013). Non Communicable Diseases (NCDs). New England Journal of 
Medicine, 369(14), 1336-1343, accessed on January 25, 2022 
Kashyap, P. (2020). Rural economy to grow at 5%. August 23, 2020. Available at COVID-19: Pradeep Kashyap 
predicts rural economy to grow at 5% (the Indian.news), accessed on accessed on January 25, 2022 
Marston, C., Renedo, A., & Miles, S. (2020). Community participation is crucial in a pandemic. The 
Lancet, 395(10238), 1676-1678. 
Sharma, A. (2015). Catch them young for a healthy future. Indian Journal of Community Medicine, 40(2), 141. 
doi:10.4103%2F0970-0218.153887 
CMIE, 2021, Unemployment Rate in India, available at https://unemploymentinindia.cmie.com/, accessed on 
January 25, 2022 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
897 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Stefan, D., Vasile, V., Oltean, A., Comes, C. A., Stefan, A. B., Ciucan-Rusu, L, Bunduchi, E, Popa M, and   Timus, 
M. (2021)., Maria-Alexandra, Mihai Timus: Women Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Business 
Development: Key Findings from a SWOT–AHP Analysis. Sustainability, 13(9), 5298. 
United Nations (2020). Department of Economic and Social Affairs Division for Sustainable Development 
Goals, Micro, Small, and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs) and their Role in achieving the SDGs, 
Available 
at 
https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/26073MSMEs_and_SDGs.pdf, 
accessed on January 25, 2022 
UNITAR, 
2020. 
Monitoring 
health-related 
SDG 
indicators. 
December 
19, 
2009. 
Available 
at, https://www.unitar.org/event/full-catalog/mooc-monitoring-selected-sdg-indicators-asia-
pacific-small-island-developing-states, accessed on January 25, 2022 
UNV, 
2020. 
Reimagining 
Volunteering 
for 
the 
2030 
Agenda, 
Available 
at 
https://www.unv.org/sites/default/files/GTM%202020%20Final%20Report.pdf, 
accessed 
on 
January 25, 2022 
UNFPA, 
2018. 
UNFPA 
India 
Ninth 
Country 
Programme 
Highlights, 
Available 
at 
https://india.unfpa.org/sites/default/files/pub-pdf/UNFPA%20Profile_combined.pdf , accessed on 
January 25, 2022 
World Bank, 2021. India, Available at https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/india/overview, accessed on 
January 25, 2022 
WHO, 2022a, WHO Corona virus dashboard, available at https://covid19.who.int/, accessed on April 08, 2022 
WHO, 2020b. Risk Communication and Community Engagement Preparedness and Readiness Framework: 
Ebola Response in the Democratic Republic of Congo in North Kivu. Available at 
https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/handle/10665/275389/9789241514828-eng.pdf?ua=1, 
accessed on accessed on January 25, 2022  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
898 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The Economic and Social Impact of 
Incubators’ Activities on Businesses 
and their Stakeholders in Sub-
Saharan Africa 
A systems perspective 
Tamara Oukes1,*  
1University of Twente 
*t.oukes@utwente.nl  
Extended abstract 
There is growing attention for business incubation as a means to support business survival and 
growth around the world. Business incubators are seen as a key driver of economic growth, job 
creation and poverty alleviation because they intend to reduce business failure rates and stimulate 
entrepreneurial activity (Assenova, 2020; Msimango-Galawe and Hlatshwayo, 2021). Therefore, the 
number of business incubators has grown explosively, not only in developed countries but also in 
emerging countries. In void institutional environments, there is often a lack of good quality 
education, entrepreneurial culture and access to resources which are critical for business growth 
(Mrkajic, 2017). Business incubators can fill these voids by providing access to physical, financial 
and network resources as well as office and entrepreneurial startup support to simulate new 
business activity (Carayannis and Von Zedtwitz, 2005). 
Consequently, scholars have devoted significant time researching the benefits and shortcomings of 
incubators in Nigeria (Adegbite, 2001), South-Africa (Assenova, 2020; Schutte, 2019), China, India, 
Malaysia and Pakistan (Jamil et al., 2016); the resources, competences and services of incubators 
to address businesses’ needs in South-Africa (Lose, 2021; Lose and Kapondoro, 2020; Msimango-
Galawe and Hlatshwayo, 2021); the impact of different support services on business success in 
Malesia (Kee, Yusoff and Khin, 2019) and South-Africa (Schutte and Chauke, 2021); and the 
archetypes of incubation models in emerging economies in general (Carayannis and Von Zedtwitz, 
2005) and Egypt in specific (Mrkajic, 2017). Despite these insights, Msimango-Galawe and 
Hlatshwayo (2021) argue that more empirical research is urgently needed into incubators’ 
effectiveness in emerging countries because their number is growing at a rapid rate without a 
systemic measure of their success.  
Therefore, we study how incubators’ activities in different stages of the entrepreneurial process 
influence the businesses they support. In doing so, we take a systems perspective because business 
incubation involves various actors which are affected by the entrepreneurial process in different 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
899 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
ways (Schutte and Chauke, 2021). In system thinking, it is important to look at the whole ecosystem 
in which the business operates (Flood, 2010). Accordingly, we research not only the businesses but 
also three groups of stakeholders it potentially affects: suppliers, customers and the community. In 
addition, it means that we need a holistic approach to assess performance. It clearly make sense to 
measure economic well-being, yet businesses also shape and are shaped by their social network 
and capabilities (London, 2009). Hence, we also use stakeholder capabilities and relationships as 
indicators of success (or failure). Thus, our research question is: how do incubators’ activities in 
different stages of the entrepreneurial process influence the economic situation, capabilities and 
relationships of the business and its suppliers, customers and community?  
We study this question in a multiple case study of four business incubators. Incubator Scale 
supports partnerships in inclusive agribusiness. Incubator Next focusses on local entrepreneurs. 
Incubator Expert supports SMEs. Incubator Smart focusses on turning smart ideas into successful 
startups. They are operating in Angola, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Ghana, Mozambique and/or Nigeria. 
Besides the archival data we collected from each case, two representatives and two (former) 
participants from each incubator were interviewed with semi-structured questionnaires. The 16, 
approximately 45-minute long, interviews were carried out in November and December 2020. As 
the world was dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic, all interviews were done online using video 
conferencing software. Content analysis was used to identify patterns in the large amount of text 
we gathered and transform these patterns into the key findings. We chose a directed approach 
because our analysis started with theory as guidance for initial codes.  
The findings show that the activities of incubators have a major beneficial impact on the economic 
situation and capabilities of the business and its suppliers, customers and community. In the 
business planning phase, incubators improve the business and its stakeholders’ economic situation 
through the development of local expertise. In the resource phase, incubators improve the business 
and its stakeholders’ economic well-being and capabilities through network building, local solution 
creation and access to finance. In the launch and manage venture phase, incubators enhance the 
business and its stakeholders’ economic performance and competences through local expertise 
development and access to finance. In the growth and harvesting phase, incubators increase the 
business and its stakeholders’ economic situation through the development of local expertise. 
Although the incubators’ impact on the relationships of the business and its community is also 
substantial, the effect on the suppliers and customers’ relationships is less pronounced. The 
relationship of the business and its stakeholders is, regardless of the entrepreneurial phase, 
supported by network building and the development of local expertise. In turn, the relationships 
developed by the business and the community it operates in also provide access to financing and 
other resources, improving their economic well-being.  
To conclude, the results show that incubators’ impact extends well beyond the business itself 
towards its suppliers, customers and community. Moreover, incubators’ impact is not limited to 
economic survival and growth, it also includes the capabilities and relationships of the business and 
its stakeholders. Incubators create this multi-actor multi-value impact through performing different 
activities in different phases of the entrepreneurial process. Theoretically, these insights contribute 
to the literature on the effectiveness of business incubators in emerging countries by: 1) collecting 
empirical evidence of the impact of business activities in different stages of the entrepreneurial 
process; and 2) taking a systems perspective to capture a complete picture of incubators’ impact, 
exploring multiple types of value and indirect effects on the business’ stakeholders. In addition, the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
900 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
study provides insights for incubators operating in Sub-Saharan Africa into how the overall impact 
of their incubation program can be enhanced. Specifically, they need to develop long-lasting 
partnerships to establish relationships and create economic stability for the business and its 
stakeholders next to the well-known incubation activities, e.g. offering office space and business 
plan support. 
Keywords  
Incubators, stakeholders, economic value, social value, emerging countries 
References  
Adegbite, O. (2001) Business Incubators and Small Enterprise Development: The Nigerian Experience. Small 
Business Economics. 17(3), 157-166.  
Assenova, V. A. (2020) Early-stage venture incubation and mentoring promote learning, scaling, and 
profitability among disadvantaged entrepreneurs. Organization Science. 31(6), 1560-1678.  
Carayannis, E. G., & Von Zedtwitz, M. (2005) Architecting gloCal (global-local), real-virtual incubator networks 
(G-RVINs) as catalysts and accelerators of entrepreneurship in transitioning and developing 
economies: Lessons learned and best practices from current development and business incubation 
practices. Technovation. 25(2), 95-110.  
Flood, R. L. (2010) The relationship of ‘systems thinking’to action research. Systemic practice and action 
research. 23(4), 269-284.  
Jamil, F., Ismail, K., Siddique, M., Khan, M. M., Kazi, A. G., & Qureshi, M. I. (2016) Business incubators in Asian 
developing countries. International Review of Management and Marketing. 6(4), 291-295.  
Kee, D. M. H., Yusoff, Y. M., & Khin, S. (2019) The role of support on start-up success: A pls-sem approach. 
Asian Academy of Management Journal. 24, 43-59.  
London, T. (2009) Making better investments at the base of the pyramid. Harvard business review. 87(5), 106-
113.  
Lose, T. (2021). Business incubators in South Africa: a resource-based perspective. Academy of 
Entrepreneurship Journal. 17(Special issue 1), 1-11.  
Lose, T., & Kapondoro, L. (2020) Competencies for business incubators in a disruptive context: the case of 
South African business incubators. Academy of Entrepreneurship Journal. 26(4), 1-7.  
Mrkajic, B. (2017) Business incubation models and institutionally void environments. Technovation. 68, 44-
55.  
Msimango-Galawe, J., & Hlatshwayo, E. N. (2021) South African business incubators and reducing the SME 
failure rate – A literature review. Problems and Perspectives in Management. 19(2), 194-205.  
Schutte, F. (2019) Small business incubator coaching in south africa: Exploring the landscape. International 
Journal of Entrepreneurship. 23(4).  
Schutte, F., & Chauke, T. (2021) The role and effectiveness of business incubators in growing small business: 
a focus on the manufacturing industry. Academy of Entrepreneurship Journal. 27(Special Issue 4), 1-
13.  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
901 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
More Sustainable Humanitarian Cash 
Transfer Programming through 
Implementing CSV and the Nexus 
Identifying the Factors Impeding Collaborative and 
Sustainable Cash Transfer Programming 
Frank Pot, BSc1,*,+, Bartjan Pennink, PhD1 
1University of Groningen 
*f.pot@student.rug.nl 
+Research is part of the Master Thesis for the MSc International 
Humanitarian Action 
Extended abstract 
Introduction and Problem Statement 
Humanitarian Cash and Voucher Assistance (CVA) has seen a tremendous rise compared to 
traditional in-kind assistance. In 2019, 17.9% of all humanitarian assistance was executed in cash, 
compared to 10.3% in 2016 (CaLP 2018; CaLP 2020). This means the number of people being 
provided with cash as humanitarian assistance instead of goods and food is growing. This is in light 
of the commitment made by the humanitarian sector to increase cash-based interventions (CBI) in 
the Grand Bargain (2016), wherein ten priorities were agreed upon to increase efficiency and 
effectiveness in humanitarian aid. That is, cash has been found to be 18% more efficient than in-
kind assistance (Hoddinott, Sandström & Upton, 2018). 
Another priority committed to in the Grand Bargain is the increased connection between 
humanitarian interventions and international development mechanisms, the so-called 
humanitarian-development nexus. Such interventions aim to make humanitarian aid more effective 
and sustainable by increasing people’s resilience, meaning their ability to cope with negative shocks 
(OECD, 2019). Hence, there is a reduced need for future humanitarian action due to the increased 
effectiveness and sustainability of the previous intervention. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
902 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Ideally, related to CBI, this means programming is connected to development mechanisms in the 
form of financial inclusion instruments, such as savings groups, micro-credit, or a full-service bank 
account. This would essentially go beyond a humanitarian intervention into a system-wide 
collaborative model to increase financial inclusion (El-Zoghbi et al., 2017). However, such 
humanitarian-development nexus defined cash interventions are barely implemented. Current 
interventions merely have a closed-loop payment system exclusively for receiving funds, excluding 
access to other financial services (Chehade et al., 2020; Bemo et al., 2017). Consequently, people’s 
access to savings and credits mechanisms is withheld, not allowing them to create sustainable 
livelihoods. This is problematic, especially as financial inclusion has been proven to foster economic 
growth, reduce poverty and increase resilience (Klapper & Hess, 2016), both through credit taking 
(Karlan, Ratan & Zinman, 2014) and saving (Hudner & Kurtz, 2015). 
Moreover, this is not only problematic for beneficiaries. Firstly, it harms humanitarian organizations 
that are creating limited social value and are moreover being evaluated on the sustainability 
criterium by institutional donors funding their program (OECD, 2019). And secondly, it impedes 
financial service providers (FSPs) from accessing a customer base at the bottom-of-pyramid (El-
Zoghbi et al., 2017). Therefore, the limited connection of CBI to development mechanisms 
negatively affects all actors in the cash assistance system. 
Shared Value Creation 
The problem as described above is essentially impeding creating shared value (CSV) following the 
theory pioneered by Porter and Kramer (2011), who argue that businesses should be addressing 
societal issues with their core business besides creating economic value for themselves. In the 
status quo of cash transfers, both economic value creation for the FSP and social value creation for 
beneficiaries and humanitarian organizations is limited. Overcoming this lack of shared value 
creation in the cash transfer system through implementing the humanitarian-development nexus 
cannot be done by humanitarian actors or private/development actors alone. As Ceyla 
Pazarabisiogly, Senior Director Finance and Markets Global Practice of the World Bank Group, 
states in a 2017 CGAP report (p. iii): ‘Continued collaboration across sectors, institutions, and 
borders is the only way that the global development community will be able to address the 
immense challenge of forced displacement in a sustainable manner.’ Moreover, a preliminary 
interview with Eunice Mwende, Interagency Cash Coordinator for the World Food Program in 
Uganda, indicates that it are FSPs whose factors should be scrutinized as their stance makes it hard 
to link financial inclusion mechanisms to humanitarian interventions. For example, their business 
models and services might not align with the system’s needs (Mercy Corps, 2016).  
We hope that by using the New Business Model related approaches of multi-value creation 
(Pennink, 2014) and collaborative business models (Jonker et al., 2020), we can contribute to the 
multi-actor sustainability problem in cash transfers. We draw from collaborative business model 
theory by scrutinizing and decomposing the complex multi-dimensional problem from the position 
of all stakeholders (Jonker et al., 2020). Hereby we try to find the factors limiting the humanitarian-
development nexus implementation in cash transfers and the inherent restricted financial inclusion 
and shared value creation for the stakeholders involved. That is, we theorize that humanitarian-
development nexus implementation in cash programs resembles a collaborative business model in 
which actors are interdependent for their value creation. Sustainable collaborative cash transfers 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
903 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
models following a constructive humanitarian-nexus implementation would result in increased 
financial inclusion for vulnerable people, social value creation for humanitarian organizations and 
economic value creation via new clientele and reconceived products for FSPs (El-Zoghbi et al., 2017; 
Porter & Kramer, 2011).  
Objective and Research Questions 
Therefore, this paper aims to identify the current interactions between stakeholders along the 
humanitarian-development continuum in the CBI system and the factors that foster or limit 
financial inclusion and the related shared value creation between the stakeholders. Moreover, it 
will try to identify the opportunities for increasing the shared value between the actors and aim so 
by answering the following research questions: 
1. 
How do the different actors interact within Uganda’s cash-based intervention 
system across space and time?  
2. 
Which factors contribute to the sustainability of the system in terms of fostering 
long-term financial inclusion and beneficiary resilience? 
3. 
How could shared value be created or enhanced for all actors?  
Methodology  
The research questions will be answered through a qualitative exploratory study with a case study 
in Uganda. A systemic stakeholder approach is taken through conducting semi-structured 
interviews with two to four responders from all stakeholder categories involved in the Ugandan CBI 
system, including donors, humanitarian organizations, development organizations and private 
financial institutions. For the data analysis of these interviews, Grounded Theory methodology and 
its process of open, axial, and selective coding is used (Strauss and Corbin, 1998). Grounded Theory 
enables to discover and generate concepts confined in practice through scrutinizing characteristics 
of categories and the relationships between these categories, all deducted through the continuous 
comparison of data (Jonker & Pennink, 2009).  
Firstly, interviews will be conducted with humanitarian organizations because of their centrality in 
the system, whereafter separate semi-structured interview guides will be developed for other 
stakeholder categories based on the findings of the literature review and previous interviews. 
Through the Grounded Theory data analysis of all interviews, a conceptual model will be created 
that displays the factors fostering sustainability of cash transfers in the form of financial inclusion 
and its related shared value creation. Results are expected in June 2022. 
Relevance and Justification   
Whereas the literature on public-private partnerships has been extensive, CSV has previously not 
been applied to humanitarian action, especially not to CBI. Moreover, literature on CSV has 
exclusively taken a firm-centred view (Menghwar & Daood, 2021), in contrast to the systemic view 
of our research focusing. By focusing on business-humanitarian collaboration, we expect to 
contribute to the CSV knowledge and broaden the collaborative business model spectrum. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
904 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Likewise, humanitarian literature has amply focused on making cash interventions sustainable 
through the connection to development mechanisms and the private sector. Finally, the research 
has practical value through studying a real-world problem that aid organizations deal with and 
which outcomes could provide practical insights concerning value creation for FSPs (Chehade et al., 
2020; El-Zoghbi et al., 2017). 
Keywords  
Humanitarian Cash Transfers, Sustainable Humanitarian Aid, Creating Shared Value, Humanitarian-
Private Partnerships, Financial Inclusion 
References  
Bemo, V.N., Aberra, D., Zimmerman, J., Lanzarone, A. and Lubinski, D. (2017) Enabling digital financial 
services in humanitarian response: Four priorities for improving payments. Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation.  
Cash Learning Partnership (CaLP). (2018) State of the World’s Cash Report: Cash Transfer Programming in 
Humanitarian Aid. CaLP. 
Cash Learning Partnership (CaLP). (2020) State of the World’s Cash 2020: Cash and Voucher Assistance in 
Humanitarian Aid. CaLP.  
Chehade, N., Mcconaghy, P., & Meier, C. M. (2020) Humanitarian Cash Transfers and Financial Inclusion: 
Lessons from Jordan and Lebanon. CGAP. 
El-Zoghbi, M., Chehade, N., Mcconaghy, P. & Soursourian, M. (2017) The Role of Financial Services in 
Humanitarian Crises. GGAP. 
Hoddinott, J., Sandström, S. & Upton, J. (2018) The impact of cash and food transfers: Evidence from a 
randomized intervention in Niger. American Journal of Agricultural Economics. 100 (4), 1032-1049. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1093/ajae/aay019 [Accessed 20th October 2021]. 
Hudner, D. & Kurtz, J. (2015) Do financial services build disaster resilience: Examining the Determinants of 
Recovery from Typhoon Yolanda in the Philippines. Mercy Corps. 
IASC. (2016) The Grand Bargain – A Shared Commitment to Better Serve People in Need. Jonker, J., Berkers, 
F.T.H.M., Derks, M., Montenegro Navarro, N., Wieclawska, S., Speijer, F., Ploegman, K. and Engels, 
H. (2020) Collaborative business models for transition. TNO.  
Jonker, J., & Pennink, B. (2009) The Essence of Research Methodology: A Concise Guide for Master and PhD 
Students in Management Science. Springer Science & Business Media, 2010. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-71659-4 [Accessed 5th December 2021]. 
Karlan, D., Ratan, A.L. & Zinman, J. (2014) Savings by and for the Poor: A research review and agenda. 
Review of Income and Wealth. 60 (1), 36-78. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1111/roiw.12101 
[Accessed 21st October 2021]. 
Klapper, L. & Hess, J. (2016) Financial Inclusion and Women’s Economic Empowerment. World Bank Group. 
Porter, M.E. & Kramer, M.R. (2011) Creating Shared Value. Harvard Business Review. 89 (1/2), 62-77.  
Menghwar, P.S. & Daood, A. (2021) Creating shared value: A systematic review, synthesis and integrative 
perspective. International Journal of Management Reviews. 23 (4), 466-485. Available from: 
doi:10.1111/ijmr.12252 [Accessed 20th January 2021]. 
Mercy Corps. (2016) Cracking the code: Enhancing emergency response & resilience in complex crises.   
OECD/DAC Network on Development Evaluation. (2019) Better Criteria for Better Evaluation: Revised 
Evaluation Criteria Definitions and Principles for Use. OECD. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
905 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Pennink, B. (2014) Dimensions of Local Economic Development : Towards a Multi-level , Multi Actor Model. 
Journal of Business and Economics, 5(1). Available from: https://doi.org/10.15341/jbe(2155-
7950)/01.05.2014/005 [Accessed 30th September 2021]. 
Strauss, A., & Corbin, J. (1998) Basics of qualitative research techniques. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage 
publications. 
Uekermann, F., Schuler, F. & Taki, M. (2017) Is Cash Better than Food Vouchers for Syrian Refugees? The 
Boston Consulting Group. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
906 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Immigrant Women Entrepreneurs as 
a Global Grand Challenge: Evidences 
from management studies 
 
Sara Poggesi1, Michela Mari1,*  
1University of Rome “Tor Vergata”;  
*michela.mari@uniroma2.it  
Abstract 
Due to the immigrants’ contribution to the development and the economic growth of both their 
countries of origin and their transit and/or destination countries, labor market integration is 
considered, today, a key issue at the international level. However, if we consider management 
studies, an aspect worth mentioning when dealing with this stream of literature is that the 
gendered nature of migrant entrepreneurship is often neglected. Therefore, the goal of this study 
is to examine those papers that jointly analyze these two groups (i.e. migrant entrepreneurs and 
women) in order to answer the following key research questions: RQ1. What are the peculiarities 
of immigrant women entrepreneurs and their firms that are emerging from management studies? 
And, consequently: RQ2. Which are the most investigated research topics that management 
scholars are focusing on, and which are the main gaps to identify and address? 
In order to answer these questions, a SLR on 83 papers on the topic has been developed and the 
main trends on this topic in management literature have been highlighted. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
907 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 3.4 - Sharing economy business 
models for sustainability: design, 
functioning and impacts 
Track chairs: Venere Sanna (Sapienza University), 
Cecilia Grieco (Sapienza University) and Trond 
Halvorsen (SINTEF) 
 
Since it began, the sharing economy has tended to be viewed as benign; the reality is that 
not all of its impacts are positive. The business models of the sharing economy are often 
associated with positive effects on the environment, economy, and society - such as the 
access and/or use of under-utilized goods or services, more sustainable consumption, 
waste reduction, strengthening social interaction, as well as providing other economic and 
social benefits. However, the sharing economy has a history of disrupting traditional 
business sectors and a growing body of research is casting doubts on its overall social, 
economic and environmental effectiveness and even intrinsic sustainability.  
This track aims to explore how to design and implement sustainable business models for 
the sharing economy, and how to identify methods and tools for evaluating their impacts. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
908 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Full Throttle! Engaging Ethnic 
Minority and Majority Consumers in 
Car Sharing  
 
Marie-Julie De Bruyne1,*, Katrien Verleye1, Hendrik Slabbinck1, 
Saskia Crucke1  
1Faculty of Economics and Business Administration, Ghent University, 
Belgium 
*MarieJulie.DeBruyne@UGent.be  
Abstract 
The world is affected by environmental and social challenges, resulting in calls for engaging 
consumers with initiatives focused on sharing underutilized resources in Western countries. 
Meanwhile, these countries are characterized by migration and ethnic diversity, giving rise to ethnic 
minority consumers. Although ethnicity is a driver of consumer engagement, little is known about 
the influence of ethnicity on consumer engagement with sharing initiatives in Western countries. 
To address this gap, we examine the role of perceived value and trust for engaging ethnic minority 
(vs. majority) consumers with sharing initiatives by relying on survey data gathered in the Belgian 
car sharing context. The results suggest that ethnic minority consumers perceive more 
environmental value of car sharing than ethnic majority consumers, yet no differences are observed 
with regard to perceived economic and social value of car sharing. Meanwhile, ethnic minority 
consumers have less trust in car sharing than ethnic majority consumers. Moreover, perceived 
value and trust act as important mediating mechanisms for non-behavioral manifestations of 
consumer engagement but even more for behavioral manifestations of consumer engagement. 
From a theoretical perspective, this research advances the sharing economy literature and the 
literature on sustainable business models by unraveling the mechanisms for engaging ethnic 
minority and majority consumers with sharing initiatives. From a practical perspective, this research 
supports practitioners and policymakers to include ethnic minority and majority consumers in the 
transition to a more sustainable economy by exploring their engagement with sharing initiatives. 
Keywords  
Sharing economy, consumer engagement, ethnic minorities, perceived value, trust 
Main text  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
909 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
1. Introduction 
Today’s world is facing grand challenges such as climate change and social inequality. In response 
to these challenges, academics, practitioners and policymakers embrace sharing initiatives to 
increase the utilization rate of resources (Grinevich et al., 2017). They do so because sharing 
initiatives have the potential to simultaneously deliver – in accordance with the triple bottom line 
perspective – social equity for People, environmental quality for Planet, and economic prosperity 
for Profit (Böcker & Meelen, 2017; Kirchherr, Reike & Hekkert, 2017). This sustainable potential can, 
however, only be realized if sufficient consumers engage with sharing initiatives (Edbring, Lehner & 
Mont, 2016; Weng et al., 2020). Even though consumers increasingly engage with sharing initiatives 
(Sands et al., 2020), few initiatives – such as Vinted, Couchsurfing and BlaBlaCar – were able to build 
a consumer base of millions of consumers (Clauss, Harengel & Hock, 2019; Möhlmann, 2015). 
Hence, insight into the determinants of consumer engagement with sharing initiatives, reflecting 
the psychological or motivational disposition of consumers in relation to sharing initiatives, is of 
utmost importance (Brodie et al., 2011; Clauss, Harengel & Hock, 2019; Hollebeek, Glynn & Brodie, 
2014). 
In parallel, today’s world is characterized by migration and ethnic diversity. For example, in 2019, 
23 million out of 447.3 million people living in the European Union (5.1%) were non-EU citizens and 
44.9 million out of 328 million people living in the United States of America (13.7%) were non-
American citizens (Batalova, Hanna & Levesque, 2021; Eurostat, 2021). As a result of migration, 
many Western countries are constituted of both ethnic majorities whose value set has its origins in 
Western nations or cultures as well as ethnic minorities whose value set is subject to non-Western 
influences (e.g. Kipnis et al., 2013; Linzmajer et al., 2020; Shoham, Segev & Gavish, 2017). Ethnic 
minorities are thus considered groups of people whose ethnicity – which reflects the state of 
belonging to a group with shared national or cultural origins (Antioco et al., 2012; Arnould, Price & 
Zinkham, 2004; Yang, 2000) – is different from that of the majority population in a specific country 
(Bartikowski et al., 2018). Some ethnic minorities in Western countries – like Turkish citizens in the 
European Union or Hispanics in the United States of America – are becoming a considerable 
consumer segment and hence cannot be left behind in the attempt to boost consumer engagement 
with sharing initiatives in the transition to a more sustainable economy (Knafo, Roccas & Sagiv, 
2011; Lee & Huang, 2020). In most – if not all – Western countries, however, ethnic minorities 
remain underrepresented in the sharing economy, as a result of which the sharing economy is not 
yet inclusive (e.g. Etter, Fieseler & Whelan, 2019; Frenken, 2017; Piscicelli, Cooper & Fisher, 2015). 
Prior research on sharing initiatives did not elaborate on the influence of ethnicity within countries 
on consumer engagement. To date, research on ethnicity in relation to sharing initiatives has mainly 
focused on the way in which national or cultural differences between countries shape consumer 
engagement with sharing initiatives, thereby wrongly assuming that countries are homogenous in 
terms of ethnicity (e.g. Bartikowski, Taieb & Chandon, 2016; Cleveland, Laroche & Hallab, 2013; De 
Mooij, 2019). Given that ethnicity is an important driver of consumption (Rosenbaum & Montoya, 
2007) and a possible barrier to the effectiveness of actions favoring sustainability (Zakari & Toplak, 
2021), more insight into the influence of ethnicity on consumer engagement with sharing initiatives 
and the mechanisms resulting in non-inclusivity of ethnic minorities in Western countries is urgently 
needed. 
Against this background, we rely on survey research to investigate the influence of ethnicity on 
consumer engagement with sharing initiatives, thereby paying specific attention to the underlying 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
910 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
mechanisms which may differ according to ethnicity. Drawing upon social exchange theory, the 
present research examines the role of perceived value and trust to engage consumers from 
different ethnic backgrounds with sharing initiatives. Indeed, extant sharing economy research 
recurrently embraces perceived value to explain consumer engagement with sharing initiatives (e.g. 
De Canio et al., 2020; Tussyadiah, 2016), thereby emphasizing – consistent with the triple bottom 
line perspective – perceived economic, environmental and social value (e.g. De Canio et al., 2020; 
Méndez-León, Reyes-Carrillo & Díaz-Pichardo, 2021). In a similar vein, many scholars acknowledge 
that trust is of major importance for engagement in the sharing economy (e.g. Dabbous & Tarhini, 
2019; Gu et al., 2021; Hazée et al., 2020). As ethnicity matters for perceptions of value and trust 
(Pankhania, Lee & Hooley, 2007; Soroka, Banting & Johnston, 2007; Tian et al., 2020), a key question 
is to what extent ethnicity affects perceived value and trust in relation to sharing initiatives, and 
consequently consumer engagement with sharing initiatives. 
This research contributes to theory and practice in several ways. First, this research advances the 
sharing economy literature by generating a better understanding of consumer differences in terms 
of consumer engagement with sharing initiatives (Böcker & Meelen, 2017; Lutz & Newlands, 2018). 
Specifically, this research investigates the role of ethnic differences between consumers within 
Western countries. Next, as the role of perceived economic, environmental and social value is 
investigated, this research embraces the triple bottom line perspective when examining the 
mechanisms for engaging ethnic minority and majority consumers with sharing initiatives. 
Additionally, this research contributes to the sharing economy literature by exploring the role of 
not only perceived value but also trust as a mechanism for engaging consumers with sharing 
initiatives (Akhmedova et al., 2021; Baker et al., 2021; Eckhardt et al., 2019). Finally, this research 
advances the literature concerning sustainable business models. Indeed, by investigating the 
mechanisms through which ethnic minority (vs. majority) consumers engage with business models 
that aim to simultaneously deliver economic, environmental and social value (e.g. sharing 
initiatives), we enhance extant knowledge on how these business models can expand their 
consumer base and grow (e.g. Day et al., 2020; Parente, Geleilate & Rong, 2018; Piscicelli, Ludden 
& Cooper, 2018). For business practitioners and policymakers, our findings can provide guidance in 
motivating consumers from different ethnic backgrounds to engage with sharing initiatives (Sands 
et al., 2020). 
2. Theoretical background 
2.1. Ethnicity and engagement with sharing initiatives 
Consumer engagement with an offering reflects the psychological or motivational disposition of 
consumers in relation to that offering (Brodie et al., 2011; Hollebeek, Glynn & Brodie, 2014). This 
disposition entails non-behavioral manifestations (e.g. thinking and feeling positive about an 
offering) as well as behavioral manifestations (e.g. using and recommending an offering) and both 
are necessary for the success of an offering. 
Extant research suggests that ethnicity influences the extent to which consumers engage with an 
offering (e.g. Boshoff, 2012; El Banna et al., 2018; Gill, Kim & Ranaweera, 2017). Ethnicity, reflecting 
the state of belonging to subgroups that are distinguished – by itself or by others – on the basis of 
common national or cultural origins (Antioco et al., 2012; Arnould, Price & Zinkham, 2004; Yang, 
2000), is a salient trait for categorization and comparison of subgroups between countries but also 
within countries (Bozkurt, Gligor & Hollebeek, 2021; Müller, 2009; Pichler et al., 2019). Indeed, 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
911 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
although relatively little research has investigated ethnic variation within countries, research has 
successfully evidenced that different ethnic groups within countries have different values which 
manifest themselves in different perceptions of an offering, which also affects their engagement 
towards that offering (e.g. Kipnis et al., 2019; Laroche et al., 2003; Pankhania, Lee & Hooley, 2007). 
With regard to sharing initiatives, a couple of sharing economy studies suggest that differences in 
national origin may explain consumer engagement (e.g. Lang, Seo & Liu, 2019; Lee & Huang, 2020). 
Additionally, some studies investigate the influence of differences in cultural origin on consumer 
engagement with sharing initiatives (e.g. Gupta et al., 2019; Wu & Shen, 2018). Although countries 
are not homogenous in terms of ethnicity (e.g. De Mooij, 2019; Gbadamosi, 2015; Kipnis et al., 
2019), the vast majority of studies in the sharing economy literature focuses on differences 
regarding national or cultural origins between countries (e.g. Lee & Huang, 2020). If ethnicity within 
countries is considered in sharing economy studies, extant research fails to explain how and why 
ethnicity shapes engagement beyond diversity in terms of cultural values (e.g. Wu & Shen, 2018). 
2.2. Social exchange theory as mechanism of consumer engagement 
To date, extant research suggests that consumer engagement with sharing initiatives is – in 
accordance with social exchange theory – dependent upon the perceived value stemming from 
sharing initiatives (Boateng, Kosiba & Okoe, 2019; Verleye, 2015). Sharing economy studies 
recurrently draw upon the triple bottom line approach and relate perceived value to the three 
dimensions of sustainable value: economic value (Profit), environmental value (Planet) and social 
value (People) (e.g. Böcker & Meelen, 2017; De Canio et al., 2020; Hamari, Sjöklint & Ukkonen, 
2016). Next to perceived value, social exchange theory emphasizes reciprocity in social exchanges 
(vs. pure economic exchanges) and argues that engagement is also driven by trust (Chuah et al., 
2021). In this regard, sharing economy research also stresses the importance of trust for 
engagement with sharing initiatives (Baker et al., 2021; Fritze et al., 2021).  
Building upon the abovementioned evidence, this research investigates how the state of belonging 
to the ethnic minority (vs. majority) influences consumer engagement with sharing initiatives 
through perceived value of sharing initiatives and trust in sharing initiatives.  
Perceived economic value – which reflects monetary gains and/or savings through sharing – is 
evidenced to induce consumer engagement in the sharing economy (e.g. Hamari, Sjöklint & 
Ukkonen, 2016; Hawlitschek, Teubner & Gimpel, 2018; Möhlmann, 2015). Meanwhile, a key 
question revolves around the influence of consumers’ ethnicity on the perceived economic value 
of sharing initiatives. In this regard, prior research suggests that ethnic minorities may face 
restrained financial means (Bhutta et al., 2020; Choudhury, 2002; Kochhar & Cilluffo, 2018). As 
disclosing financial deprivation may have negative consequences for their economic position in 
society (Jaikumar, Singh & Sarin, 2018; Ungerer, 2019), sharing may have less economic value in the 
eyes of financially-restrained consumers. Consequently, ethnic minorities may prefer ownership 
over sharing as this allows them to hide financial deprivation from the outside world (Jugert, 
Leszczensky & Pink, 2018; Schaefers et al., 2021; Sharma & Alter, 2012). Therefore, we hypothesize: 
H1: Compared to ethnic majorities, ethnic minorities in Western countries (a) 
perceive less economic value from sharing initiatives, which (b) negatively influences 
their engagement towards sharing initiatives. Hence, (c) perceived economic value 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
912 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
mediates the relation between ethnicity and consumer engagement towards sharing 
initiatives. 
Regarding perceived environmental value, referring to positive environmental implications of 
sharing through increased utilization of idle resources, empirical studies conclude its stimulating 
role for consumer engagement in the sharing economy (e.g. Hamari, Sjöklint & Ukkonen, 2016; 
Hawlitschek, Teubner & Gimpel, 2018). Meanwhile, ethnicity may affect perceptions of 
environmental value as not all ethnic groups pay equal attention to the environment. Ethnic groups 
whose value sets find their origins in non-Western cultures or nations – which is the case for many 
ethnic minorities in Western countries – may care more about the environment, following a focus 
on collectivist rather than individualistic values (Kizgin et al., 2018; Patterson, 2017; Shavitt & 
Zhang, 2004). Indeed, several scholars have discovered a positive relationship between collectivism 
and environmental values (Eastman & Iyer, 2021; Segev, 2015; Shi, Wu & Kuang, 2018). Therefore, 
we hypothesize: 
H2: Compared to ethnic majorities, ethnic minorities in Western countries (a) 
perceive more environmental value from sharing initiatives, which (b) positively 
influences their engagement towards sharing initiatives. Hence, (c) perceived 
environmental value mediates the relation between ethnicity and consumer 
engagement towards sharing initiatives. 
With regard to perceived social value as another important determinant of consumer engagement 
with sharing initiatives, a distinction should be made between social value originating from 
belonging to a community of like-minded people (e.g. Hawlitschek, Teubner & Gimpel, 2018; 
Möhlmann, 2015) and social value originating from gaining recognition from like-minded people 
(e.g. Hamari, Sjöklint & Ukkonen, 2016; Hawlitschek, Teubner & Gimpel, 2018; Lamberton & Rose, 
2012). Consumers who embrace collectivistic values – such as many ethnic minorities in Western 
countries – may perceive more social value in the form of community belonging and recognition 
when sharing, because sharing initiatives tailor into the need for respectively strong social ties and 
desire for social approval (e.g. Koydemir & Essau, 2018; Prabhu, 2011; Yang, Ding & D’Alessandro, 
2018). Meanwhile, drawing upon similarity-attraction theory, people tend to perceive higher levels 
of community belonging when connecting with people of the same ethnic group (i.e. in-group) 
compared to connecting with people of other ethnic groups (i.e. out-groups) (Bozkurt, Gligor & 
Hollebeek, 2021; Ta, Esper & Hofer, 2018). This so-called homophily effect is even stronger for 
ethnic minorities compared to ethnic majorities (Bozkurt, Gligor & Hollebeek, 2021). A similar 
pattern is observed when looking at recognition. Building upon social identity theory, ethnic 
minorities value recognition by their own ethnic group (i.e. in-group) more than they value 
recognition by other ethnic groups (i.e. out-groups) (Bozkurt, Gligor & Hollebeek, 2021). If the in-
group is less engaged in sharing initiatives – which holds for ethnic minorities who are 
underrepresented in the sharing economy (Andreotti et al., 2017; Cansoy & Schor, 2017) – 
consumers may perceive less social value in terms of community belonging and recognition. Hence, 
we hypothesize: 
H3: Compared to ethnic majorities, ethnic minorities in Western countries (a) 
perceive less social value of community belonging from sharing initiatives, which (b) 
negatively influences their engagement towards sharing initiatives. Hence, (c) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
913 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
perceived social value of community belonging mediates the relation between 
ethnicity and consumer engagement towards sharing initiatives. 
H4: Compared to ethnic majorities, ethnic minorities in Western countries (a) 
perceive less social value of recognition from sharing initiatives, which (b) negatively 
influences their engagement towards sharing initiatives. Hence, (c) perceived social 
value of recognition mediates the relation between ethnicity and consumer 
engagement towards sharing initiatives. 
Following social exchange theory, not only perceived value is of importance to engage consumers, 
also trust plays a crucial role (Ma et al., 2020; Wang et al., 2019). In the sharing economy, exchanges 
commonly take place between strangers which makes trust even more vital for consumer 
engagement with sharing initiatives. Indeed, the urgency of trust in the sharing economy is stressed 
by multiple scholars (e.g. Crucke & Slabbinck, 2019; Hawlitschek, Teubner & Gimpel, 2018; 
Möhlmann, 2015). Extant research suggests that consumers tend to perceive higher levels of trust 
when engaging in exchanges with the in-group than when engaging in exchanges with out-groups 
(Dinesen & Sønderskov, 2015; Putnam, 2007). As ethnic minorities are underrepresented in the 
sharing economy (Andreotti et al., 2017; Cansoy & Schor, 2017), they are less likely to engage in 
exchanges with the in-group (i.e. consumers from the same ethnic group) than to engage in 
exchanges with out-groups (i.e. consumers from other ethnic groups) and hence have less trust in 
sharing initiatives. Based upon this evidence, we hypothesize: 
H5: Compared to ethnic majorities, ethnic minorities in Western countries (a) have 
less trust in sharing initiatives, which (b) negatively influences their engagement 
towards sharing initiatives. Hence, (c) trust mediates the relation between ethnicity 
and consumer engagement towards sharing initiatives. 
The research model resulting from these hypotheses is depicted in Figure 1. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
914 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 1. Research model 
3. Methodology 
3.1. Design  
To empirically investigate the influence of consumers’ ethnicity on their engagement with sharing 
initiatives, this research employs a survey design. Though the sharing economy covers a wide 
variety of sectors in different countries, this research focuses on business-to-consumer car sharing 
in Flanders, Belgium (Fernandes, Chimenti & Nogueira, 2020; Lang et al., 2021). First, car sharing is 
considered one of the most promising sectors in the sharing economy (Matthijs et al., 2021; 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, 2016), not in the least because an average car is used only four to eight 
percent of the time (Kumar, Lahiri & Dogan, 2018) or because global CO2 emissions from road 
transport primarily stem from passenger vehicles (International Energy Agency, 2019; OECD, 2011). 
Second, many car sharing initiatives are active in Flanders (Chapman, Eyckmans & Van Acker, 2020; 
Crucke & Slabbinck, 2019). Third, even though the Flemish car sharing market is relatively mature, 
car sharing initiatives experience difficulties in engaging ethnic minorities (Chapman, Eyckmans & 
Van Acker, 2020; Crucke & Slabbinck, 2019; Staes, 2015). Finally, the ethnic diversity in Belgium is 
comparable to the ethnic diversity in other Western countries (Eurostat, 2021; Hooghe & De 
Vroome, 2015). 
To capture whether respondents belong to the ethnic minority (vs. majority), we gathered 
information on their nationalities (Licsandru & Cui, 2018; Pires & Stanton, 2000). As non-EU ethnic 
minorities in Belgium – like most European countries – predominantly encompass people with the 
Turkish or Maghrebian nationality (Meeusen, Abts & Meuleman, 2019), we have classified people 
with the Turkish or Maghrebian nationality – whether or not combined with the Belgian nationality 
– as belonging to the ethnic minority group. People only having the Belgian nationality were 
classified as belonging to the ethnic majority group. Next, we relied on extant multi-item scales in 
the sharing economy literature to capture perceived value of sharing initiatives (Barnes & Mattsson, 
2017; Hamari, Sjöklint & Ukkonen, 2016) and trust in sharing initiatives (Möhlmann, 2015). With 
regard to consumer engagement, we distinguished – in line with our conceptualization – between 
non-behavioral consumer engagement (e.g. thinking and feeling positive about an offering) and 
behavioral consumer engagement (e.g. using and recommending an offering) (Brodie et al., 2011; 
Hollebeek, Glynn & Brodie, 2014). For non-behavioral consumer engagement, we used the scale of 
Hamari, Sjöklint and Ukkonen (2016). For behavioral consumer engagement, we relied on the scale 
of Barnes and Mattsson (2017). All aforementioned scales were measured on 7-point Likert scales 
(1 = strongly disagree; 7 = strongly agree). Finally, we collected sociodemographic information 
(here, gender and age).  
3.2. Sample 
Data was collected from November 2019 until March 2020, using an online survey administered via 
Qualtrics (in Dutch). It should be noted that data was captured before stay-at-home measures 
imposed by the Belgian government due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Respondents were 
approached via direct messages, social media platforms such as Facebook and LinkedIn, and e-mails 
to ethno-cultural organizations. Next to being older than 18, respondents had to possess a driver's 
license and understand the Dutch language (as the survey was in Dutch).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
915 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The A-priori Sample Size Calculator for Structural Equation Models was used to calculate the 
required sample size (Soper, 2021). Given the 28 observed items of the seven latent variables, the 
observed independent variable and the two observed control variables (Crucke & Slabbinck, 2019; 
Halder et al., 2020; Minami, Ramos & Bortoluzzo, 2021), a minimum sample size of 1244 was 
required to achieve a power of 0.80, an (small) anticipated effect of 0.12 and a probability level of 
0.05 (Cohen, 1988; Lau et al., 2019; Morrison, Morrison & McCutcheon, 2017; Soper, 2021). 
Altogether, 2553 respondents started the Qualtrics survey, yet only 1379 respondents fully 
completed the survey (completion rate of 54.01%). In the final sample, all respondents who 
answered all questions related to the research model in Figure 1 are included. The final sample 
includes 1495 respondents with variety in terms of ethnicity (10.34% ethnic minority respondents) 
and other sociodemographic characteristics (41.87% male respondents; mean age = 36.18). 
 
4. Results 
The measurement model and the structural model were analyzed by means of Structural Equation 
Modeling using the lavaan package in R (Rosseel, 2012).  
4.1. Measurement model  
The results of the confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) exhibited an adequate fit of the measurement 
model. The chi-square statistic of 2285.11 with 329 degrees of freedom was significant (p < 0.01). 
The comparative fit index (CFI) was 0.94, the Tucker-Lewis index (TLI) was 0.93 and the root mean 
square error of approximation was 0.06 (Bentler, 1992; Bentler & Bonett, 1980; Hu & Bentler, 1998, 
1999).  
To assess the reliability of the constructs, we relied on Cronbach’s alpha values and composite 
reliability values. The Cronbach’s alpha values of the constructs ranged between 0.81 and 0.94 
which implies good to excellent construct reliability (Hair, 2009). Moreover, all composite reliability 
(CR) values exceeded the threshold value of 0.60 (Bagozzi & Yi, 1988). 
To ensure convergent validity, both the factor loadings and the average variances extracted were 
investigated. The factor loadings were all significant and above 0.60 which indicates convergent 
validity (Anderson & Gerbing, 1988; Fornell & Larcker, 1981). Additionally, all average variances 
extracted (AVE) were above 0.50, evidencing convergent validity (Bagozzi & Yi, 1988).  
To ensure discriminant validity, we followed the criterion of Fornell and Larcker (1981). As the 
square root of the average variances extracted was always larger than the correlations between 
the constructs, discriminant validity was established (Bagozzi & Yi, 1988).  
4.2. Structural model  
The structural model also showed an acceptable fit with the data as CFI, TLI and RMSEA values were 
0.88, 0.87 and 0.08, respectively (Bentler, 1992; Bentler & Bonett, 1980; Hu & Bentler, 1998, 1999). 
For the mediation model, we requested bootstrap standard errors and a bootstrap based p-value 
(5000 bootstrap samples). The hypotheses were tested whilst controlling for the influence of 
gender and age on consumer engagement with car sharing as these control variables were found 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
916 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
to influence consumer engagement in previous sharing economy research (e.g. Böcker & Meelen, 
2017; Minami, Ramos & Bortoluzzo, 2021).  
First, we investigate the direct effect of ethnicity on non-behavioral consumer engagement and 
behavioral consumer engagement. The former is significantly negative (β = -0.155, p < 0.001), thus 
indicating that ethnic minorities in Western countries exhibit less non-behavioral engagement 
towards sharing initiatives than ethnic majorities. The latter is not significant (β = 0.039, p > 0.05), 
hence no difference in behavioral consumer engagement across ethnic groups could be detected 
in this study. 
Regarding perceived economic value, no significant relation is found between ethnicity and 
perceived economic value (β = -0.030, p > 0.05), thus not supporting hypothesis H1a. However, in 
support of hypothesis H2b, a positive relation was found between perceived economic value and 
non-behavioral consumer engagement (β = 0.104, p < 0.001) and between perceived economic 
value and behavioral consumer engagement (β = 0.079, p < 0.01). This evidence shows that 
perceived economic value is indeed a determinant of consumer engagement towards sharing 
initiatives. Next, the indirect effect of ethnicity on non-behavioral consumer engagement through 
perceived economic value is not significant (β = -0.003, p > 0.05), nor is the indirect effect of 
ethnicity on behavioral consumer engagement through perceived economic value (β = -0.002, p > 
0.05). In other words, hypothesis H1c is not supported. 
The results further suggest that ethnic minorities in Western countries perceive more 
environmental value of car sharing compared to ethnic majorities (β = 0.081, p < 0.01), which 
supports hypothesis H2a. Perceived environmental value, in turn, positively influences non-
behavioral consumer engagement (β = 0.231, p < 0.001) as well as behavioral consumer 
engagement (β = 0.139, p < 0.001). In other words, more perceived environmental value results in 
more consumer engagement towards sharing initiatives. Hence, hypothesis H2b is supported. 
Moreover, the indirect effect of ethnicity on non-behavioral consumer engagement through 
perceived environmental value is significant (β = 0.019, p < 0.01), as is the indirect effect of ethnicity 
on behavioral consumer engagement through perceived environmental value (β = 0.011, p < 0.05). 
As a result, hypothesis H2c is also supported. 
Regarding perceived social value of community belonging, no significant relationship is found 
between ethnicity and perceived social value of community belonging (β = 0.042, p > 0.05), thus 
not supporting hypothesis H3a. Moreover, whereas the relation between perceived social value of 
community belonging and non-behavioral consumer engagement is not significant (β = 0.022, p > 
0.05), the relation between perceived social value of community belonging and behavioral 
consumer engagement is significantly positive (β = 0.063, p < 0.05). Hence, hypothesis H3b is only 
partially supported. In addition, the indirect relation between ethnicity and non-behavioral 
engagement through perceived social value of community belonging is not significant (β = 0.001, p 
> 0.05), nor is the indirect relation between ethnicity and behavioral consumer engagement 
through perceived social value of community belonging (β = 0.003, p > 0.05). As a result, hypothesis 
H3c is not supported. 
Regarding perceived social value of recognition, no significant relation is found between ethnicity 
and perceived social value of recognition (β = 0.058, p > 0.05), thus not supporting hypothesis H4a. 
In contrast, perceived social value of recognition positively influences non-behavioral consumer 
engagement (β = 0.072, p < 0.01) and the same holds for the relation between perceived social 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
917 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
value of recognition and behavioral consumer engagement (β = 0.206, p < 0.001). Hypothesis H4b 
is thus supported. Then again, the indirect effect is insignificant for non-behavioral consumer 
engagement (β = 0.004, p > 0.05) and behavioral consumer engagement (β = 0.012, p > 0.05). 
Consequently, hypothesis H4c is not supported. 
Finally, the results indicate that belonging to the ethnic minority group negatively influences trust 
(β = -0.049, p < 0.05), which indicates that ethnic minorities in Western countries perceive less trust 
in car sharing than ethnic majorities. This is in line with hypothesis H5a. Moreover, trust positively 
affects non-behavioral consumer engagement (β = 0.504, p < 0.001) and behavioral consumer 
engagement (β = 0.394, p < 0.001). In other words, less trust in sharing initiatives results in less 
engagement towards sharing initiatives. This evidence supports hypothesis H5b. Ultimately, the 
indirect effect stemming from ethnicity mediated via trust is negative for both non-behavioral 
consumer engagement (β = -0.025, p < 0.05) and behavioral consumer engagement (β = -0.019, p < 
0.05), thus satisfying hypothesis H5c. 
5. Discussion  
5.1. Theoretical implications 
First, this research focuses on the role of ethnicity in engaging consumers with sharing initiatives. 
In doing so, this research advances the sharing economy literature, which suggests that consumer 
engagement with sharing initiatives is – in accordance with social exchange theory – dependent 
upon perceived value and trust (e.g. Boateng, Kosiba & Okoe, 2019; Chuah et al., 2021; Ma et al., 
2020; Verleye, 2015; Wang et al., 2019). Specifically, the present research contributes to this 
literature stream by demonstrating how consumer perceptions about social exchanges in the 
sharing economy (here, perceived value and trust) are influenced by ethnicity. By unraveling how 
ethnic minority and majority consumers engage with sharing initiatives, this research also generates 
a better understanding of consumer differences (here, differences linked to ethnicity) in the sharing 
economy, as called upon in previous research (Akhmedova et al., 2021; Böcker & Meelen, 2017; 
Lutz & Newlands, 2018). Moreover, by providing insight into engaging ethnic minority and majority 
consumers, this research advances extant knowledge on attracting and retaining consumers with 
different ethnic backgrounds in the sharing economy, which is a key research priority in the 
literature on sustainable business models (Hu et al., 2019; Piscicelli, Ludden & Cooper, 2018).  
Second, the present research embraces the triple bottom line perspective when investigating the 
mechanisms for engaging ethnic minority and majority consumers with sharing initiatives. Indeed, 
these initiatives – as a subset of sustainable business models – have the potential to deliver not 
only economic but also environmental and social value (e.g. Bocken et al., 2020; Ciulli & Kolk, 2019; 
De Giacomo & Bleischwitz, 2020; Lozano, 2018). The research findings, however, nuance the 
engagement potential of the triple bottom line, in that perceptions of economic, environmental, 
and social value of sharing initiatives vary among consumers. Consumers’ ethnicity partially explains 
this variability in terms of perceived sustainable value, in that ethnicity influences perceived 
environmental value. This evidence suggests that different actors may have different views on the 
sustainable potential of sharing initiatives. 
Third, this research presents not only perceived value but also trust as a mechanism for engaging 
ethnic minority and majority consumers with sharing initiatives, thereby building upon insights 
from the sharing economy literature (e.g. Hawlitschek, Teubner & Gimpel, 2018; Möhlmann, 2015). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
918 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The present research also advances this literature stream by demonstrating that ethnicity affects 
trust in such a way that ethnic minority consumers have less trust in sharing initiatives than ethnic 
majority consumers and hence show less engagement. Although the influence of ethnicity on trust 
is less pronounced than its influence on perceived environmental value, the engagement potential 
of trust is higher than the engagement potential of perceived environmental value. As such, this 
research supports the important role of trust in engaging consumers with sharing initiatives whilst 
highlighting differences between ethnic minority and majority consumers.  
Finally, this research explores consumer engagement with sharing initiatives in terms of behavioral 
as well as non-behavioral manifestations. By doing so, this research builds upon the sharing 
economy literature that – inspired by the theory of reasoned action and the theory of planned 
behavior – focuses on explaining behavioral intentions and actual usage of sharing initiatives, which 
resonate with behavioral manifestations of engagement (e.g. Becker-Leifhold, 2018; Lang & 
Armstrong, 2018; Toni, Renzi & Mattia, 2018). Non-behavioral manifestations of consumer 
engagement with sharing initiatives, however, are equally important, in that consumers who use 
offerings – such as sharing initiatives – without thinking and/or feeling positive about them may 
not contribute to their success from a triple bottom line perspective and the same goes for 
consumers who think and/or feel positive about offerings without using them (Brodie et al., 2013).  
5.2. Managerial implications 
For business practitioners in the sharing economy, this research offers relevant insights for 
generating and maintaining consumer engagement with sharing initiatives. First, as this research 
provides concrete insights into the determinants of consumer engagement among ethnic minorities 
(vs. majorities), it advances knowledge about consumer heterogeneity in the context of sharing 
initiatives based on consumer ethnicity (Böcker & Meelen, 2017; Lutz & Newlands, 2018; Sands et 
al., 2020). Additionally, by revealing the underlying mechanisms of consumer engagement among 
ethnic minorities (vs. majorities), this research contributes to moving away from universally 
addressing and targeting (potential) consumers of sharing initiatives, which is unlikely to be a 
successful approach (Gupta et al., 2019; Lee & Huang, 2020). Different ethnic groups can be 
addressed more adequately when including the significant mediating influences from this study in 
marketing communications. For example, business practitioners could emphasize the 
environmental value of sharing initiatives even more in communications towards ethnic minorities. 
Next, given the significant influence of trust on consumer engagement, sufficient attention should 
be paid to trust building mechanisms (Barnes & Mattsson, 2017; Möhlmann, 2015). Finally, the 
findings from this study may also assist sharing business models – and by extension sustainable 
business models – in eliciting consumer engagement and expanding their consumer base. Indeed, 
it is no longer sufficient for businesses to only deliver economic value, also environmental and social 
value are of importance (Esch, Schnellbächer & Wald, 2019; Panapanaan et al., 2016). However, 
sustainable business models – such as sharing initiatives – are dependent upon a critical mass of 
consumers (and providers) to deliver sustainable value. In this regard, ethnic minorities represent 
an important target market as demographic trends suggest that ethnic minorities will continue to 
increase (Pankhania, Lee & Hooley, 2007). Hence, understanding ethnic minorities in relation to 
sustainable business models is a necessity for these business models to secure enough participants, 
leverage network effects and grow (e.g. Day et al., 2020; Hu et al., 2019; Parente, Geleilate & Rong, 
2018). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
919 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
5.3. Limitations and future research 
This research has some limitations which offer suggestions for future research. First, this research 
exploits data stemming from Belgian consumers regarding engagement with sharing initiatives in 
the car sharing sector. As this may limit the generalizability of the findings, future research might 
want to replicate this study among consumers in different countries and different sectors (Böcker 
& Meelen, 2017; Cocquyt, Crucke & Slabbinck, 2020; Möhlmann, 2015). Moreover, generations of 
ethnic groups might differ in their identification with host country and country of origin and, in turn, 
in engagement towards sharing initiatives (Tufan & Wendt, 2020). Second, although this research 
focuses on business-to-consumer car sharing initiatives, alternative car sharing business models – 
such as cooperative car sharing business models – exist, for which the influence of ethnicity and the 
underlying mechanisms regarding consumer engagement might be different (Crucke & Slabbinck, 
2019; Lamberton & Rose, 2012). Third, this research investigates both non-behavioral engagement 
and behavioral engagement, yet no actual behaviors. Given the attitude-behavior gap as well as the 
intention-behavior gap, future research should invest in collecting data on actual behaviors in the 
sharing economy to assess whether the influence of ethnicity and the underlying mechanisms for 
consumer engagement will still be the same (Böcker & Meelen, 2017; Cocquyt, Crucke & Slabbinck, 
2020; Hamari, Sjöklint & Ukkonen, 2016; Nguyen, Nguyen & Hoang, 2019). Fourth, the cross-
sectional data was collected before the onset of a worldwide pandemic which might have led to 
biased results. Indeed, the dynamics to engage with sharing initiatives might have changed because 
of the COVID-19 pandemic (e.g. social interactions), which strengthens the need for longitudinal 
data about consumer engagement with sharing initiatives to highlight long-term effects (Hamari, 
Sjöklint & Ukkonen, 2016). Finally, as this research provides insights into the mechanisms of 
consumer engagement for ethnic minority and ethnic majority groups, it might support future 
research on promoting sharing initiatives among different ethnic groups through signaling value 
and trust (Anwar, 2017; Eckhardt et al., 2019; Prothero et al., 2011).  
References  
Akhmedova, A., Manresa, A., Rivera, D.E. & Bikfalvi, A. (2021) Service quality in the sharing economy: A review 
and research agenda. International Journal of Consumer Studies. 45 (4), 889–910. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.1111/ijcs.12680. 
Anderson, J.C. & Gerbing, D.W. (1988) Structural equation modeling in practice: A review and recommended 
two-step approach. Psychological bulletin. 103 (3), 411. 
Andreotti, A., Anselmi, G., Eichhorn, T., Hoffmann, C.P. & Micheli, M. (2017) Participation in the sharing 
economy. 
Antioco, M., Vanhamme, J., Hardy, A. & Bernardin, L. (2012) On the importance of social integration for 
minority targeting effectiveness. International Journal of Research in Marketing. 29 (4), 380–389. 
doi:10.1016/j.ijresmar.2012.08.001. 
Anwar, S.T. (2017) The Sharing Economy and Marketing: A Review and Future Research (An Abstract). In: M. 
Stieler (ed.). Creating Marketing Magic and Innovative Future Marketing Trends. Developments in 
Marketing Science: Proceedings of the Academy of Marketing Science. 2017 pp. 525–525. 
doi:10.1007/978-3-319-45596-9_98. 
Arnould, E., Price, L. & Zinkham, G. (2004) Customers. Irwin, New York, McGraw‐Hill. 
Bagozzi, R.P. & Yi, Y. (1988) On the evaluation of structural equation models. Journal of the academy of 
marketing science. 16 (1), 74–94. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
920 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Baker, J., Kearney, T., Laud, G. & Holmlund, M. (2021) Engaging users in the sharing economy: Individual and 
collective psychological ownership as antecedents to actor engagement. Journal of Service 
Management. 32 (4), 483–506. doi:https://doi.org/10.1108/JOSM-08-2020-0300. 
Barnes, S.J. & Mattsson, J. (2017) Understanding collaborative consumption: Test of a theoretical model. 
Technological Forecasting and Social Change. 118, 281–292. doi:10.1016/j.techfore.2017.02.029. 
Bartikowski, B., Laroche, M., Jamal, A. & Yang, Z. (2018) The type-of-internet-access digital divide and the 
well-being of ethnic minority and majority consumers: A multi-country investigation. Journal of 
Business Research. 82, 373–380. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2017.05.033. 
Bartikowski, B., Taieb, B. & Chandon, J.-L. (2016) Targeting without alienating on the Internet: Ethnic minority 
and 
majority 
consumers. 
Journal 
of 
Business 
Research. 
69 
(3), 
1082–1089. 
doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2015.08.024. 
Batalova, J., Hanna, M. & Levesque, C. (2021) Frequently Requested Statistics on Immigrants and Immigration 
in 
the 
United 
States. 
9 
February 
2021. 
migrationpolicy.org. 
https://www.migrationpolicy.org/article/frequently-requested-statistics-immigrants-and-
immigration-united-states-2020 [Accessed: 3 October 2021]. 
Becker-Leifhold, C.V. (2018) The role of values in collaborative fashion consumption - A critical investigation 
through the lenses of the theory of planned behavior. Journal of Cleaner Production. 199, 781–791. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.296. 
Bentler, P.M. (1992) On the fit of models to covariances and methodology to the Bulletin. Psychological 
bulletin. 112 (3), 400. 
Bentler, P.M. & Bonett, D.G. (1980) Significance tests and goodness of fit in the analysis of covariance 
structures. Psychological bulletin. 88 (3), 588. 
Bhutta, N., Chang, A.C., Dettling, L.J., Hsu, J.W. & Hewitt, J. (2020) Disparities in wealth by race and ethnicity 
in the 2019 survey of consumer finances. Feds Notes. No. 2020-09-28-2. 
Boateng, H., Kosiba, J.P.B. & Okoe, A.F. (2019) Determinants of consumers’ participation in the sharing 
economy: A social exchange perspective within an emerging economy context. International Journal 
of Contemporary Hospitality Management. 31 (2), 718–733. doi:10.1108/IJCHM-11-2017-0731. 
Bocken, N., Jonca, A., Södergren, K. & Palm, J. (2020) Emergence of Carsharing Business Models and 
Sustainability Impacts in Swedish Cities. Sustainability. 12 (4), 1594. doi:10.3390/su12041594. 
Böcker, L. & Meelen, T. (2017) Sharing for people, planet or profit? Analysing motivations for intended sharing 
economy participation. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions. 23, 28–39. 
doi:10.1016/j.eist.2016.09.004. 
Boshoff, C. (2012) A neurophysiological assessment of consumers’ emotional responses to service recovery 
behaviors: the impact of ethnic group and gender similarity. Journal of Service Research. 15 (4), 401–
413. doi:https://doi.org/10.1177/1094670512453879. 
Bozkurt, S., Gligor, D. & Hollebeek, L.D. (2021) Ethnicity’s effect on social media-based comment intention: 
Comparing minority and majority consumers. Psychology & Marketing. 38 (11), 1895–1910. 
doi:10.1002/mar.21549. 
Brodie, R.J., Hollebeek, L.D., Jurić, B. & Ilić, A. (2011) Customer Engagement: Conceptual Domain, 
Fundamental Propositions, and Implications for Research. Journal of Service Research. 14 (3), 252–
271. doi:10.1177/1094670511411703. 
Brodie, R.J., Ilic, A., Juric, B. & Hollebeek, L. (2013) Consumer engagement in a virtual brand community: An 
exploratory 
analysis. 
Journal 
of 
Business 
Research. 
66 
(1), 
105–114. 
doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2011.07.029. 
Cansoy, M. & Schor, J.B. (2017) Who gets to share in the sharing economy: Racial discrimination on Airbnb. 
Working paper. 
Chapman, D.A., Eyckmans, J. & Van Acker, K. (2020) Does Car-Sharing Reduce Car-Use? An Impact Evaluation 
of Car-Sharing in Flanders, Belgium. Sustainability. 12 (19), 8155. doi:10.3390/su12198155. 
Choudhury, S. (2002) Racial and Ethnic Differences in Wealth and Asset Choices. Social Security Bulletin. 64 
(4). https://www.ssa.gov/policy/docs/ssb/v64n4/v64n4p1.html. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
921 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Chuah, S.H.-W., Tseng, M.-L., Wu, K.-J. & Cheng, C.-F. (2021) Factors influencing the adoption of sharing 
economy in B2B context in China: Findings from PLS-SEM and fsQCA. Resources, Conservation and 
Recycling. 175, 105892. doi:10.1016/j.resconrec.2021.105892. 
Ciulli, F. & Kolk, A. (2019) Incumbents and business model innovation for the sharing economy: Implications 
for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. 214, 995–1010. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.12.295. 
Clauss, T., Harengel, P. & Hock, M. (2019) The perception of value of platform-based business models in the 
sharing economy: determining the drivers of user loyalty. Review of Managerial Science. 13 (3), 605–
634. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s11846-018-0313-0. 
Cleveland, M., Laroche, M. & Hallab, R. (2013) Globalization, culture, religion, and values: Comparing 
consumption patterns of Lebanese Muslims and Christians. Journal of Business Research. 66 (8), 
958–967. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2011.12.018. 
Cocquyt, A., Crucke, S. & Slabbinck, H. (2020) Organizational characteristics explaining participation in 
sustainable business models in the sharing economy: Evidence from the fashion industry using 
conjoint 
analysis. 
Business 
Strategy 
and 
the 
Environment. 
29 
(6), 
2603–2613. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2523. 
Cohen, J. (1988) Statistical power analysis for the behavioral sciences. 2nd edition. Routledge. 
Crucke, S. & Slabbinck, H. (2019) An Experimental Vignette Study on the Attractiveness of Ownership-Based 
Carsharing Communities: A Social Capital Theory Perspective. Environment and Behavior. 53 (4), 
379–408. doi:10.1177/0013916519888969. 
Dabbous, A. & Tarhini, A. (2019) Assessing the impact of knowledge and perceived economic benefits on 
sustainable consumption through the sharing economy: A sociotechnical approach. Technological 
Forecasting and Social Change. 149, 119775. doi:10.1016/j.techfore.2019.119775. 
Day, S., Godsell, J., Masi, D. & Zhang, W. (2020) Predicting consumer adoption of branded subscription 
services: A prospect theory perspective. Business Strategy and the Environment. 29 (3), 1310–1330. 
doi:10.1002/bse.2435. 
De Canio, F., Nieto-García, M., Martinelli, E. & Pellegrini, D. (2020) The motives behind consumers’ intention 
to use peer-to-peer accommodation: an fsQCA application. International Journal of Contemporary 
Hospitality Management. 32 (9), 2969–2989. doi:10.1108/IJCHM-02-2020-0142. 
De Giacomo, M.R. & Bleischwitz, R. (2020) Business models for environmental sustainability: Contemporary 
shortcomings and some perspectives. Business Strategy and the Environment. 29 (8), 3352–3369. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2576. 
De Mooij, M. (2019) Fairy tales of global consumer culture in a polarizing world. International Marketing 
Review. 36 (4), 581–586. doi:10.1108/IMR-11-2018-0314. 
Dinesen, P.T. & Sønderskov, K.M. (2015) Ethnic Diversity and Social Trust: Evidence from the Micro-Context. 
American Sociological Review. 80 (3), 550–573. doi:10.1177/0003122415577989. 
Eastman, J.K. & Iyer, R. (2021) Understanding the ecologically conscious behaviors of status motivated 
millennials. Journal of Consumer Marketing. 38 (5), 565–575. doi:10.1108/JCM-02-2020-3652. 
Eckhardt, G.M., Houston, M.B., Jiang, B., Lamberton, C., Rindfleisch, A. & Zervas, G. (2019) Marketing in the 
Sharing Economy. Journal of Marketing. 83 (5), 5–27. doi:10.1177/0022242919861929. 
Edbring, E.G., Lehner, M. & Mont, O. (2016) Exploring consumer attitudes to alternative models of 
consumption: motivations 
and 
barriers. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
123, 
5–15. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.10.107. 
El Banna, A., Papadopoulos, N., Murphy, S.A., Rod, M. & Rojas-Méndez, J.I. (2018) Ethnic identity, consumer 
ethnocentrism, and purchase intentions among bi-cultural ethnic consumers: “Divided loyalties” or 
“dual allegiance”? Journal of Business Research. 82, 310–319. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2017.09.010. 
Esch, M., Schnellbächer, B. & Wald, A. (2019) Does integrated reporting information influence internal 
decision making? An experimental study of investment behavior. Business Strategy and the 
Environment. 28 (4), 599–610. doi:10.1002/bse.2267. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
922 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Etter, M., Fieseler, C. & Whelan, G. (2019) Sharing Economy, Sharing Responsibility? Corporate Social 
Responsibility in the Digital Age. Journal of Business Ethics. 159 (4), 935–942. doi:10.1007/s10551-
019-04212-w. 
Eurostat 
(2021) 
Migration 
and 
migrant 
population 
statistics. 
2021. 
ec.europa.eu/eurostat. 
https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-
explained/index.php?title=Migration_and_migrant_population_statistics [Accessed: 3 October 
2021]. 
Fernandes, B., Chimenti, P. & Nogueira, R. (2020) A Taxonomy of Initiatives at Work in the Sharing Economy. 
Australasian Marketing Journal. 28 (3), 81–86. doi:10.1016/j.ausmj.2020.06.003. 
Fornell, C. & Larcker, D.F. (1981) Structural equation models with unobservable variables and measurement 
error: Algebra and statistics. 
Frenken, K. (2017) Sustainability perspectives on the sharing economy. Environmental Innovation and Societal 
Transitions. 23, 1–2. doi:10.1016/j.eist.2017.04.004. 
Fritze, M., Benkenstein, M., Belk, R., Peck, J., Wirtz, J. & Claus, B. (2021) Commentaries on the Sharing 
Economy: Advancing New Perspectives. Journal of Service Management Research. 5, 3–19. 
doi:10.15358/2511-8676-2021-1-3. 
Gbadamosi, A. (2015) Brand personification and symbolic consumption among ethnic minority teenage 
consumers: An empirical study. 
Journal of Brand Management. 22 (9), 737–754. 
doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1057/bm.2015.40. 
Gill, T., Kim, H.J. & Ranaweera, C. (2017) Ethnic stereotyping in service provision: When do stereotypes affect 
the performance expectations and evaluation of ethnic service providers? Journal of Service Theory 
and Practice. 27 (3), 520–546. doi:10.1108/JSTP-03-2016-0056. 
Grinevich, V., Huber, F., Karatas-Özkan, M. & Yavuz, C. (2017) Green entrepreneurship in the sharing 
economy: utilising multiplicity of institutional logics. Small Business Economics. 52 (4), 859–876. 
doi:10.1007/s11187-017-9935-x. 
Gu, H., Zhang, T. (Christina), Lu, C. & Song, X. (2021) Assessing Trust and Risk Perceptions in the Sharing 
Economy: An Empirical Study. Journal of Management Studies. 58 (4), 1002–1032. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.1111/joms.12678. 
Gupta, M., Esmaeilzadeh, P., Uz, I. & Tennant, V.M. (2019) The effects of national cultural values on 
individuals’ intention to participate in peer-to-peer sharing economy. Journal of Business Research. 
97, 20–29. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2018.12.018. 
Hair, J.F. (2009) Multivariate data analysis. 7th edition. Upper Saddle River, NJ, Pearson Prentice Hall. 
Halder, P., Hansen, E.N., Kangas, J. & Laukkanen, T. (2020) How national culture and ethics matter in 
consumers’ green consumption values. Journal of Cleaner Production. 265, 121754. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.121754. 
Hamari, J., Sjöklint, M. & Ukkonen, A. (2016) The Sharing Economy: Why People Participate in Collaborative 
Consumption. Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology. 67, 2047–2059. 
doi:10.1002/asi.23552. 
Hawlitschek, F., Teubner, T. & Gimpel, H. (2018) Consumer motives for peer-to-peer sharing. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 204, 144–157. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.08.326. 
Hazée, S., Van Vaerenbergh, Y., Delcourt, C. & Kabadayi, S. (2020) Service delivery system design for risk 
management in sharing-based product service systems: a customer-oriented approach. 
International 
Journal 
of 
Operations 
& 
Production 
Management. 
40 
(4), 
459–479. 
doi:10.1108/IJOPM-08-2019-0581. 
Hollebeek, L.D., Glynn, M.S. & Brodie, R.J. (2014) Consumer Brand Engagement in Social Media: 
Conceptualization, Scale Development and Validation. Journal of Interactive Marketing. 28 (2), 149–
165. doi:10.1016/j.intmar.2013.12.002. 
Hooghe, M. & De Vroome, T. (2015) The perception of ethnic diversity and anti-immigrant sentiments: A 
multilevel analysis of local communities in Belgium. Ethnic and Racial Studies. 38 (1), 38–56. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/01419870.2013.800572. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
923 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Hu, H., Huang, T., Cheng, Y. & Lu, H. (2019) The Evolution of Sustainable Business Model Innovation: Evidence 
from a Sharing Economy Platform in China. Sustainability. 11 (15), 4207. doi:10.3390/su11154207. 
Hu, L. & Bentler, P.M. (1999) Cutoff criteria for fit indexes in covariance structure analysis: Conventional 
criteria versus new alternatives. Structural equation modeling: a multidisciplinary journal. 6 (1), 1–
55. doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/10705519909540118. 
Hu, L. & Bentler, P.M. (1998) Fit indices in covariance structure modeling: Sensitivity to underparameterized 
model misspecification. Psychological methods. 3 (4), 424–453. doi:https://doi.org/10.1037/1082-
989X.3.4.424. 
International Energy Agency (2019) Transport sector CO2 emissions by mode in the Sustainable Development 
Scenario, 2000-2030. 2019. IEA. https://www.iea.org/data-and-statistics/charts/transport-sector-
co2-emissions-by-mode-in-the-sustainable-development-scenario-2000-2030 
[Accessed: 
28 
October 2021]. 
Jaikumar, S., Singh, R. & Sarin, A. (2018) ‘I show off, so I am well off’: Subjective economic well-being and 
conspicuous consumption in an emerging economy. Journal of Business Research. 86, 386–393. 
doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2017.05.027. 
Jugert, P., Leszczensky, L. & Pink, S. (2018) The Effects of Ethnic Minority Adolescents’ Ethnic Self-
Identification on Friendship Selection. Journal of Research on Adolescence. 28 (2), 379–395. 
doi:10.1111/jora.12337. 
Kipnis, E., Broderick, A.J., Demangeot, C., Adkins, N.R., Ferguson, N.S., Henderson, G.R., Johnson, G., 
Mandiberg, J.M., Mueller, R.D., Pullig, C., Roy, A. & Zúñiga, M.A. (2013) Branding beyond prejudice: 
Navigating multicultural marketplaces for consumer well-being. Journal of Business Research. 66 (8), 
1186–1194. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2012.08.011. 
Kipnis, E., Demangeot, C., Pullig, C. & Broderick, A.J. (2019) Consumer Multicultural Identity Affiliation: 
Reassessing identity segmentation in multicultural markets. Journal of Business Research. 98, 126–
141. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2018.11.056. 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D. & Hekkert, M. (2017) Conceptualizing the circular economy: An analysis of 114 
definitions. 
Resources, 
Conservation 
and 
Recycling. 
127, 
221–232. 
doi:10.1016/j.resconrec.2017.09.005. 
Kizgin, H., Jamal, A., Dey, B.L. & Rana, N.P. (2018) The Impact of Social Media on Consumers’ Acculturation 
and Purchase Intentions. Information Systems Frontiers. 20 (3), 503–514. doi:10.1007/s10796-017-
9817-4. 
Knafo, A., Roccas, S. & Sagiv, L. (2011) The Value of Values in Cross-Cultural Research: A Special Issue in Honor 
of 
Shalom 
Schwartz. 
Journal 
of 
Cross-Cultural 
Psychology. 
42 
(2), 
178–185. 
doi:10.1177/0022022110396863. 
Kochhar, R. & Cilluffo, A. (2018) Income Inequality in the U.S. Is Rising Most Rapidly Among Asians. 12 July 
2018. 
Pew 
Research 
Center’s 
Social 
& 
Demographic 
Trends 
Project. 
https://www.pewresearch.org/social-trends/2018/07/12/income-inequality-in-the-u-s-is-rising-
most-rapidly-among-asians/ [Accessed: 6 October 2021]. 
Koydemir, S. & Essau, C.A. (2018) Chapter 5 - Anxiety and Anxiety Disorders in Young People: A Cross-Cultural 
Perspective. In: M. Hodes, S.S.-F. Gau, & P.J. De Vries (eds.). Understanding Uniqueness and Diversity 
in Child and Adolescent Mental Health. pp. 115–134. doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-815310-9.00005-8. 
Kumar, V., Lahiri, A. & Dogan, O.B. (2018) A strategic framework for a profitable business model in the sharing 
economy. Industrial Marketing Management. 69, 147–160. doi:10.1016/j.indmarman.2017.08.021. 
Lamberton, C.P. & Rose, R.L. (2012) When Is Ours Better Than Mine? A Framework for Understanding and 
Altering Participation in Commercial Sharing Systems. Journal of Marketing. 76 (4), 109–125. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.1509/jm.10.0368. 
Lang, B., Kemper, J., Dolan, R. & Northey, G. (2021) Why do consumers become providers? Self-determination 
in the sharing economy. Journal of Service Theory and Practice. ahead-of-print (ahead-of-print). 
doi:10.1108/JSTP-09-2020-0220. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
924 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Lang, C. & Armstrong, C.M.J. (2018) Collaborative consumption: The influence of fashion leadership, need for 
uniqueness, and materialism on female consumers’ adoption of clothing renting and swapping. 
Sustainable Production and Consumption. 13, 37–47. doi:10.1016/j.spc.2017.11.005. 
Lang, C., Seo, S. & Liu, C. (2019) Motivations and obstacles for fashion renting: a cross-cultural comparison. 
Journal of Fashion Marketing and Management: An International Journal. 23 (4), 519–536. 
doi:10.1108/JFMM-05-2019-0106. 
Laroche, M., Papadopoulos, N., Heslop, L. & Bergeron, J. (2003) Effects of subcultural differences on country 
and product evaluations. Journal of Consumer Behaviour. 2 (3), 232–247. doi:10.1002/cb.104. 
Lau, Y., Fang, L., Cheng, L.J. & Kwong, H.K.D. (2019) Volunteer motivation, social problem solving,self-efficacy, 
and mental health: a structural equation model approach. Educational Psychology. 39 (1), 112–132. 
doi:10.1080/01443410.2018.1514102. 
Lee, S.H. & Huang, R. (2020) Consumer responses to online fashion renting: exploring the role of cultural 
differences. International Journal of Retail & Distribution Management. 49 (2), 187–203. 
doi:10.1108/IJRDM-04-2020-0142. 
Licsandru, T.C. & Cui, C.C. (2018) Subjective social inclusion: A conceptual critique for socially inclusive 
marketing. Journal of Business Research. 82, 330–339. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2017.08.036. 
Linzmajer, M., Brach, S., Walsh, G. & Wagner, T. (2020) Customer Ethnic Bias in Service Encounters. Journal 
of Service Research. 23 (2), 194–210. doi:10.1177/1094670519878883. 
Lozano, R. (2018) Sustainable business models: Providing a more holistic perspective. Business Strategy and 
the Environment. 27 (8), 1159–1166. doi:10.1002/bse.2059. 
Lutz, C. & Newlands, G. (2018) Consumer segmentation within the sharing economy: The case of Airbnb. 
Journal of Business Research. 88, 187–196. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2018.03.019. 
Ma, S., Gu, H., Hampson, D.P. & Wang, Y. (2020) Enhancing Customer Civility in the Peer-to-Peer Economy: 
Empirical Evidence from the Hospitality Sector. Journal of Business Ethics. 167 (1), 77–95. 
doi:10.1007/s10551-019-04128-5. 
Matthijs, J., Vansevenant, M., Rodenbach, J., Ryvers, S. & Seeuws, B. (2021) Report Car Sharing 2020. 
https://www.autodelen.net/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/Annual-report-car-sharing-2020-2021-
1.pdf. 
Meeusen, C., Abts, K. & Meuleman, B. (2019) Between solidarity and competitive threat?: The ambivalence 
of anti-immigrant attitudes among ethnic minorities. International Journal of Intercultural Relations. 
71, 1–13. doi:10.1016/j.ijintrel.2019.04.002. 
Méndez-León, E., Reyes-Carrillo, T. & Díaz-Pichardo, R. (2021) Towards a holistic framework for sustainable 
value analysis in business models: A tool for sustainable development. Business Strategy and the 
Environment. 31 (1). doi:10.1002/bse.2871. 
Minami, A.L., Ramos, C. & Bortoluzzo, A.B. (2021) Sharing economy versus collaborative consumption: What 
drives consumers in the new forms of exchange? Journal of Business Research. 128, 124–137. 
doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2021.01.035. 
Möhlmann, M. (2015) Collaborative consumption: determinants of satisfaction and the likelihood of using a 
sharing economy option again. 
Journal of Consumer Behaviour. 14 (3), 193–207. 
doi:10.1002/cb.1512. 
Morrison, T.G., Morrison, M.A. & McCutcheon, J.M. (2017) Best Practice Recommendations for Using 
Structural Equation Modelling in Psychological Research. Psychology. 08 (09), 1326. 
doi:10.4236/psych.2017.89086. 
Müller, F. (2009) Entertaining anti-racism. Multicultural television drama, identification and perceptions of 
ethnic threat. 34 (3), 239–256. doi:10.1515/COMM.2009.016. 
Nguyen, H.V., Nguyen, C.H. & Hoang, T.T.B. (2019) Green consumption: Closing the intention-behavior gap. 
Sustainable Development. 27 (1), 118–129. doi:10.1002/sd.1875. 
OECD (2011) Personal Transport Choices. In: Greening Household Behaviour. OECD Studies on Environmental 
Policy and Household Behaviour. OECD. pp. 97–118. doi:10.1787/9789264096875-8-en. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
925 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Panapanaan, V., Bruce, T., Virkki-Hatakka, T. & Linnanen, L. (2016) Analysis of Shared and Sustainable Value 
Creation of Companies Providing Energy Solutions at the Base of the Pyramid (BoP). Business 
Strategy and the Environment. 25 (5), 293–309. doi:10.1002/bse.1866. 
Pankhania, A., Lee, N. & Hooley, G. (2007) Within-country ethnic differences and product positioning: a 
comparison of the perceptions of two British sub-cultures. Journal of Strategic Marketing. 15 (2–3), 
121–138. doi:10.1080/09652540701318997. 
Parente, R.C., Geleilate, J.-M.G. & Rong, K. (2018) The Sharing Economy Globalization Phenomenon: A 
Research 
Agenda. 
Journal 
of 
International 
Management. 
24 
(1), 
52–64. 
doi:10.1016/j.intman.2017.10.001. 
Patterson, M.L. (2017) Nonverbal Communication. In: Reference Module in Neuroscience and Biobehavioral 
Psychology. Elsevier. p. doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-809324-5.06502-0. 
Pichler, S., Livingston, B., Yu, A., Varma, A., Budhwar, P. & Shukla, A. (2019) Nationality diversity and leader–
Member exchange at multiple levels of analysis: Test of a cross-level model. Equality, Diversity and 
Inclusion: An International Journal. 38 (1), 20–39. doi:10.1108/EDI-03-2018-0054. 
Pires, G.D. & Stanton, P.J. (2000) Ethnicity and acculturation in a culturally diverse country: Identifying ethnic 
markets. 
Journal 
of 
Multilingual 
and 
Multicultural 
Development. 
21 
(1), 
42–57. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.1080/01434630008666393. 
Piscicelli, L., Cooper, T. & Fisher, T. (2015) The role of values in collaborative consumption: insights from a 
product-service system for lending and borrowing in the UK. Journal of Cleaner Production. 97, 21–
29. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2014.07.032. 
Piscicelli, L., Ludden, G.D.S. & Cooper, T. (2018) What makes a sustainable business model successful? An 
empirical comparison of two peer-to-peer goods-sharing platforms. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
172, 4580–4591. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.08.170. 
Prabhu, V.P. (2011) Risk-Taking. In: M.A. Runco & S.R. Pritzker (eds.). Encyclopedia of Creativity. pp. 319–323. 
doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-375038-9.00189-8. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (2016) The sharing economy presents Europe with a €570 billion opportunity. 6 July 
2016. 
PwC. 
https://www.pwc.com/hu/en/pressroom/2016/sharing_economy_europe.html 
[Accessed: 6 December 2021]. 
Prothero, A., Dobscha, S., Freund, J., Kilbourne, W.E., Luchs, M.G., Ozanne, L.K. & Thøgersen, J. (2011) 
Sustainable Consumption: Opportunities for Consumer Research and Public Policy. Journal of Public 
Policy & Marketing. 30 (1), 31–38. doi:10.1509/jppm.30.1.31. 
Putnam, R.D. (2007) E Pluribus Unum: Diversity and Community in the Twenty-first Century The 2006 Johan 
Skytte Prize Lecture. Scandinavian Political Studies. 30 (2), 137–174. doi:10.1111/j.1467-
9477.2007.00176.x. 
Rosenbaum, M.S. & Montoya, D.Y. (2007) Am I welcome here? Exploring how ethnic consumers assess their 
place identity. Journal of Business Research. 60 (3), 206–214. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2006.09.026. 
Rosseel, Y. (2012) Lavaan: An R package for structural equation modeling and more. Version 0.5–12 (BETA). 
Journal of statistical software. 48 (2), 1–36. 
Sands, S., Ferraro, C., Campbell, C., Kietzmann, J. & Andonopoulos, V.V. (2020) Who shares? Profiling 
consumers in the sharing economy. Australasian Marketing Journal. 28 (3), 22–33. 
doi:10.1016/j.ausmj.2020.06.005. 
Schaefers, T., Narayanamurthy, G., Moser, R. & Leban, M. (2021) The sharing economy at the base of the 
economic pyramid: How access-based services can help overcome ownership risks. Psychology & 
Marketing. 38 (11), 2073–2088. doi:10.1002/mar.21541. 
Segev, S. (2015) Modelling household conservation behaviour among ethnic consumers: the path from values 
to behaviours. International Journal of Consumer Studies. 39 (3), 193–202. doi:10.1111/ijcs.12167. 
Sharma, E. & Alter, A.L. (2012) Financial Deprivation Prompts Consumers to Seek Scarce Goods. Journal of 
Consumer Research. 39 (3), 545–560. doi:10.1086/664038. 
Shavitt, S. & Zhang, J. (2004) Advertising and culture. In: C. Spielberger (ed.). Encyclopedia of applied 
psychology. Elsevier. pp. 47–51. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
926 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Shi, Z., Wu, L. & Kuang, Z. (2018) How face consciousness reverse pro-self-behavior? A study on ecological 
consumption from the perspective of social value orientation. Journal of Contemporary Marketing 
Science. 1 (1), 117–144. doi:https://doi.org/10.1108/JCMARS-07-2018-0004. 
Shoham, A., Segev, S. & Gavish, Y. (2017) The effect of acculturation and ethnic identification on consumer 
disidentification and consumption: An investigation of U.S. Hispanics. Journal of Consumer 
Behaviour. 16 (5), 403–412. doi:10.1002/cb.1640. 
Soper, 
D. 
(2021) 
A-priori 
Sample 
Size 
Calculator 
for 
Structural 
Equation 
Models. 
2021. 
https://www.danielsoper.com/statcalc/calculator.aspx?id=89 [Accessed: 11 October 2021]. 
Soroka, S., Banting, K. & Johnston, R. (2007) Ethnicity, trust and the welfare state. In: F. Kay & R. Johnston 
(eds.). Social Capital, Diversity and the Welfare State. pp. 279–304. 
Staes, B. (2015) Gentse autodeelorganisatie richt zich op allochtone gemeenschap. 10 October 2015. De 
Standaard. https://www.standaard.be/cnt/dmf20151009_01911832 [Accessed: 25 September 
2021]. 
Ta, H., Esper, T.L. & Hofer, A.R. (2018) Designing crowdsourced delivery systems: The effect of driver 
disclosure 
and 
ethnic 
similarity. 
Journal 
of 
Operations 
Management. 
60, 
19–33. 
doi:10.1016/j.jom.2018.06.001. 
Tian, M., Chapa, S., Walsh, M., Kjaerholt, N. & Xia, A. (2020) Are Eco-Friendly Cars More Favorable? An 
exploratory study of attitude toward eco-friendliness among multiethnic consumers in the US. In: 
Association of Marketing Theory and Practice Proceedings. 2020 p. 
Toni, M., Renzi, M.F. & Mattia, G. (2018) Understanding the link between collaborative economy and 
sustainable behaviour: An empirical investigation. Journal of Cleaner Production. 172, 4467–4477. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.11.110. 
Tufan, P. & Wendt, H. (2020) Organizational identification as a mediator for the effects of psychological 
contract breaches on organizational citizenship behavior: Insights from the perspective of ethnic 
minority 
employees. 
European 
Management 
Journal. 
38 
(1), 
179–190. 
doi:10.1016/j.emj.2019.07.001. 
Tussyadiah, I.P. (2016) Factors of satisfaction and intention to use peer-to-peer accommodation. 
International Journal of Hospitality Management. 55, 70–80. doi:10.1016/j.ijhm.2016.03.005. 
Ungerer, L. (2019) Shame at the Bottom of the Pyramid: Possible Experiences in a Consumer Culture Context. 
In: C.-H. Mayer & E. Vanderheiden (eds.). The Bright Side of Shame: Transforming and Growing 
Through Practical Applications in Cultural Contexts. Cham, Springer International Publishing. pp. 
131–145. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-13409-9_10. 
Verleye, K. (2015) The co-creation experience from the customer perspective: its measurement and 
determinants. Journal of Service Management. 26 (2), 321–342. doi:10.1108/JOSM-09-2014-0254. 
Wang, Y., Xiang, D., Yang, Z. & Ma, S. (Sara) (2019) Unraveling customer sustainable consumption behaviors 
in sharing economy: A socio-economic approach based on social exchange theory. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 208, 869–879. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.10.139. 
Weng, J., Hsieh, Y.-C., Adnan, M.Z. & Yi, L.-H. (2020) The motivation for Muslim customers’ participation in 
the 
sharing 
economy. 
Resources, 
Conservation 
and 
Recycling. 
155, 
104554. 
doi:10.1016/j.resconrec.2019.104554. 
Wu, X. & Shen, J. (2018) A Study on Airbnb’s Trust Mechanism and the Effects of Cultural Values—Based on 
a Survey of Chinese Consumers. Sustainability. 10 (9), 3041. doi:10.3390/su10093041. 
Yang, Ding, S. & D’Alessandro, S. (2018) Are all Chinese shoppers the same? Evidence of differences in values, 
decision making and shopping motivations between the Han majority and other minorities in China. 
Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services. 44, 24–34. doi:10.1016/j.jretconser.2018.05.008. 
Yang, P.Q. (2000) Ethnic studies: Issues and approaches. State University of New York Press. 
Zakari, A. & Toplak, J. (2021) Investigation into the social behavioural effects on a country’s ecological 
footprint: Evidence from Central Europe. Technological Forecasting and Social Change. 170, 120891. 
doi:10.1016/j.techfore.2021.120891. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
927 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
928 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
An offer to help: Impacts of covid-19 
lockdown on local sharing 
economies 
 
Trond Halvorsen1,*, Kine Jakobsen2, and Jacqueline Floch1 
1SINTEF, Strindveien 4, 7034 Trondheim, Norway; 2SINTEF Nord, 
Storgata 118, 9008 Tromsø, Norway. 
*Trond.Halvorsen@sintef.no 
 
Abstract 
The preventive measures applied in response to the covid-19 pandemic have transformed social 
and economic activities. Based on a case study of the Norwegian digital sharing platform Nabohjelp 
(English: Neighbour help), this article describes how sudden introductions of social distancing 
policies, such as lockdowns, affect the usage of peer-to-peer (p2p) sharing economy platforms. The 
analysis includes all messages posted by users on the Nabohjelp platform over a period covering 
one month before and two and a half months after the announcement of the first covid-19 
lockdown in Norway (N=14997). Statistical analysis is applied to understand the impact of the 
lockdown on different types of platform activities, and text analysis is performed on a stratified 
random sample of messages (n=400). We find evidence of a rapid response to the lockdown and 
highly increased app usage, as well as increased technology adoption rates, in the first five weeks 
of lockdown. Before the lockdown, the messages were mainly related to specific needs with a short 
deadline, while messages during the lockdown were more open-ended and general in nature. We 
find an initial spike in the number of messages from people offering to help others, driven by both 
pre-existing and new users. When society gradually opened up again after about two months, the 
daily number of posted messages remained about three times higher than before the lockdown. 
We conclude that p2p sharing platforms can play an important role in the robustness of local 
societies in times of a pandemic. 
Key words:  
Sharing economy, peer-to-peer sharing, crisis management, covid-19  
 
Introduction 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
929 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Since late 2019, social distancing has been an important policy in many countries for slowing the 
spread of the covid-19 virus. This paper explores how the sharing economy can help to alleviate the 
difficulties that social distancing imposes at the local level. Below, we present detailed evidence of 
how a smart phone sharing app called Nabohjelp (Eng: Neighbour help) was used in response to 
the national lockdown following the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic in Norway. Through 
collaboration with the platform owner, we were given access to the full set of messages posted on 
the app for a period starting one month before lockdown measures were imposed to about ten 
weeks after (N = 14 997). Our findings provide new insights into the dynamics of how a peer-to-
peer (p2p) app designed for collaborative consumption within local neighbourhoods was adopted 
and used by the public when the crisis struck. We describe how the app usage changed, and how 
usage evolved over the following ten weeks. 
Before vaccines were developed and deployed, social distancing was among the primary strategies, 
along with testing and sanitation, to combat the novel corona virus known as covid-19. Social 
distancing takes many forms, from avoiding physical contact, e.g., handshakes and hugs, to isolation 
in homes, travel restrictions and the temporary closure of businesses and public institutions. 
Whether self-imposed or mandated by government, social distancing creates many challenges to 
everyday life. We find that thousands of Norwegians responded to the lockdown by going online to 
self-organize and either seek or offer help. The messages on the Nabohjelp platform are a clear 
expression of people's desire to help each other out in a time of large uncertainty. The findings are 
relevant to decision makers planning policy responses to new crises, e.g., potential future waves of 
the covid-19 pandemic. Firstly, improved understanding of societal resilience helps in estimating 
the social and economic costs of anti-contagion measures. Secondly, our findings support the 
notion that governments and policy makers should support the use of sharing apps as a means for 
communicating and helping people who are isolated. Thirdly, the results suggest that new app users 
were driven by the same motives as pre-existing users. Fourthly, the underlying data gives a first-
hand account of how the public reacted when the covid-19 pandemic came to Norway in the spring 
of 2020. The next section covers the background for our study. It positions the current paper in the 
existing literature on the sharing economy and collaborative consumption. Next, it describes the 
Nabohjelp app in more detail and describes the social context in which our data was generated. In 
section three, we present the dataset and the research design. The results are presented in section 
four, followed by a discussion in section five. Finally, section six concludes the paper. 
Background 
The social benefits of the sharing economy 
The concept of a sharing economy has proven hard to define (Botsman, 2013; Juliet B. Schor, 
Fitzmaurice, Carfagna, Attwood-Charles, & Poteat, 2016). It relates to several different empirical 
phenomena, such as collaborative consumption, collaborative economy, peer economy, and 
network economy, amongst others, where the exchange of goods and services is facilitated by a 
digital platform and what (Arvidsson, 2018) calls "an ideology of 'sharing'". In this paper, we follow 
Botsman and Rogers (2011) in defining the sharing economy as “an economic model based on 
sharing underutilized assets from spaces to skills to stuff for monetary and non-monetary benefits, 
largely focused on peer-to-peer transactions”. These assets might be in terms of labour, material 
goods, or knowledge (Botsman & Rogers, 2011).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
930 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
That sharing platforms generate both economic and social benefits is well known (Böcker & Meelen, 
2017; J. Schor, 2014; Juliet B Schor & Fitzmaurice, 2015). For example, the sharing platforms link 
consumers with resources in what Schor (2014) calls “stranger sharing”. The social aspect of the 
sharing economy tends to be especially important in local communities such as neighbourhoods 
(Akin, Jakobsen, Floch, & Hoff, 2021). When the parties of an exchange live close to each other, 
there is an increased chance that engaging in the local sharing economy may lead to repeat 
encounters on and outside the sharing platform. In this way, sharing platforms have the potential 
to move communities towards increased levels of trust (Arvidsson, 2018; Hamari, Sjöklint, & 
Ukkonen, 2016). There is also a potential for people to self-select to platforms that are locally 
oriented if social interaction is part of their motivation to participate (Akin et al., 2021). As such, 
bridging and bonding effects may in some cases be intentional, rather than unintended 
externalities.  
Seddighi and Baharmand (2020) explore the role of the sharing economy in crisis management, 
including how ICT platforms has the potential to share information and coordinate actions, 
resources and needs across sectors and stakeholder groups. In a review of the related literature, 
they identified eight studies, of which four covered responses to natural disasters and the need to 
help refugees. None related to a health crisis such as a pandemic. The current study aims to 
contribute to fill this knowledge gap.  
The Nabohjelp mobile app 
Nabohjelp is a digital sharing platform owned and developed by OBOS, the largest housing co-
operative in Norway. The mobile app is free to download and use. It was Launched in 2017 and had 
about 125 000 registered users in March 2020 when the lockdown came into effect. 
The key objective of Nabohjelp is to facilitate contact between neighbours. Users can post messages 
that become visible to other users living within an adjustable radius from their home. Messages are 
typically requests for help with practical issues, that require a quick response. Users can also post 
offers to share resources or general information. There is also an option for grassroot organisations 
to register places of interest or upcoming events through a web site.  
Figure 1 shows how the app may appear on a cell phone. The main user interface contains a list of 
recent posts and a map displaying the location of nearby requests and offerings, upcoming activities 
and places of interest. At the bottom of the screen, five icons allow users to navigate to perform 
different actions. From left to right, they are: "Home" for displaying the active messages posted by 
users near your home; "Statistics" to bring up statistics about app usage in your area in the recent 
weeks; "Add message" for creating new posts; "Conversations" to see private messages between 
yourself and other users; "Profile" where you can change the information in your user profile and 
adjust the radius that determines the visibility of your posts. The maximum radius was changed 
from 3 km to 10 km in an update that was pushed to users soon after the lockdown took effect. 
This particularly benefited users in areas with a low adoptation rate, e.g. in rural areas.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
931 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
    
   
 
Figure 1 Screenshots from Nabohjelp 
Note: Figure 1 shows screen shots of neighbour messages (left), a map of nearby places of interest (middle) and a list of 
local happenings arranged by NGOs (right). 
Policy measures introduced at the outbreak of covid-19 in Norway 
The first confirmed case of covid-19 in Norway was registered on February 26th 2020. Around the 
same time, travellers were returning home from winter holidays in Italy and Austria, unknowingly 
bringing the virus with them. Within two weeks, the authorities lost the ability to trace the spread 
of the disease. At 2:00 pm. on March 12th 2020, the Norwegian government announced and 
implemented large-scale anti-contagion measures, introduced by the Norwegian Prime Minister 
Erna Solberg as "the most severe restrictions on personal freedom in peacetime" (NTB, 2020).  
This included the temporary closure of workplaces, kindergartens, schools, universities, gyms, 
hairdressers, restaurants, bars, cultural and sports activities and more. Regulations were 
introduced to limit social contact in places that still were open, and those who could were 
encouraged to work from home. The measures were implemented to protect vulnerable groups 
and maintain a functioning health care system as the pandemic entered a new phase. The lockdown 
took the public by surprise, with almost no time to prepare for the new situation. 
 
Data description and research design 
Data description 
Through collaboration with OBOS, we obtained the complete set of messages posted by Nabohjelp 
users in the period from February 12th to June 2nd, 2020. The dataset contains 14 997 messages, 
covering periods before, during and after the national lockdown of March 12th. Each message 
contains a title, a body of text with the message itself, and the date and time of publication. The 
user that published a message is registered by the date and time that the user registered him-
/herself on the app, providing unique identification of users. Each message is registered with a type: 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
932 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
offering, request, commerce or information. The format and range of the variables are summarized 
in Table 1. 
Table 1 Variables included in the dataset  
Variable 
Format 
Range 
Title 
Text 
Open 
Body 
Text 
Open 
Message type 
Text 
Offering, Request, Commerce, Information 
Publication date  
Timestamp: dd.mm.yyyy 
12.02.2020 – 02.06.2020 
Publication time 
Timestamp: hh.mm.ss 
00:00:01 – 23:59:59 
User registration date 
Timestamp: dd.mm.yyyy 
06.09.2016 – 02.06.2020 
User registration time 
Timestamp: hh.mm.ss 
00:00:01 – 23:59:59 
 
Research design 
The number of observations and the level of detail in the dataset presented several opportunities 
for analysing the data. After an initial familiarisation with the data, we designed a mixed method 
research approach with an explanatory sequential design (Creswell & Plano Clark, 2010), combining 
quantitative and qualitative research methods to analyse the dataset. The analysis followed two 
phases. In the first phase, quantitative analysis was used to generate descriptive statistics based on 
the entire population of messages. In the second phase, we wanted to exploit the level of detailed 
insight that a manual investigation of the posted messages would give, but it was clear that a full 
readthrough of all the posts would be too time consuming. As an alternative, we decided to draw 
samples from subsets of the data, representing periods before, during and after the lockdown. The 
periods were selected based on the results from the quantitative analysis. Working with samples 
allowed for an in-depth content analysis focusing on the message titles and bodies. 
The quantitative analysis utilized the entire dataset, covering the period of February 11th to June 
2nd. Python scripts were used to aggregate the number of posted messages according to various 
criteria, such as publication date, message type and date for user registration. The quantitative 
analysis was scripted in Python 3.8.3 using PyCharm IDE 2020.1.2. The qualitative content analysis 
was guided by the empirical data, consistent with a grounded theory approach (Glaser & Strauss, 
1967; Krippendorff, 2019). The messages were coded using Microsoft Excel version 16.48. Sampled 
messages where coded as whether and to what extent they contained any relation to covid-19, as 
well as the users' own tagging of messages related to type, and the payment option. 
It was decided to use four sample periods of varying length. Period 1 covers the days in the dataset 
that occurred before the lockdown:  Feb 12th to March 11th (28 days). Period 2 begins on the day 
when lockdown measures were introduced and extends about two weeks, from March 12th to 
March 26th (15 days). Period 3 covers the time from March 27th to April 11th (15 days). Finally, 
period 4 was defined as May 2nd to June 2nd (32 days). This period represents the final month in 
the available dataset and covers a time when most of the lockdown measures had been reversed 
or moderated, allowing society to open back up and partially return to normality. 
100 messages were drawn from each of the sample periods. The title and body of these messages 
were read manually to identify indicators that would suggest whether the message was related or 
not to the ongoing pandemic and anti-contagion measures. The messages were then divided in 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
933 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
three groups, as either explicitly referring to the pandemic, implicitly related based on the content 
of the message, or unrelated. For classifying messages as explicitly referring to the pandemic, we 
looked for terms such as "quarantine", "home office", "temporarily laid off work" and "home-
schooling", and messages describing people as being sick or at risk, as well as being healthy 
(indicating the ability to help people that are sick or at risk). Expressions such as “these times” or 
“these days” were also considered as explicitly referring to the pandemic.  
The identification of implicit references to the pandemic is based on news reports during the 
lockdown. For example, certain products were in high demand and often sold out from stores in 
the initial weeks, such as yeast for baking bread and equipment for setting up home offices. Another 
example is requests of board games and recommendations for activities for children at home. Such 
messages were considered to implicitly refer to home schooling or -kindergarten and thereby 
implicitly referring to the pandemic. The remaining messages were coded as unrelated to the 
pandemic. One researcher read all of the four hundred sample messages and coded them, as the 
content was unambiguous and easy to code in most cases. Messages where the researcher was in 
doubt were presented and discussed in consensus meetings with all authors to decide on the 
coding.  
Results 
The distribution of messages over time 
This section reports the results of the quantitative analysis for the distribution of posted messages 
over time. It provides an overview of the development and gives more insight into the motivation 
for dividing the dataset into sub-periods. Descriptive statistics are provided for each sub-period as 
an initial indication of changes in user behaviour motivated by the covid-19 pandemic. 
Figure 2 shows the number of messages posted on Nabohjelp on each day from February 12th, 
2020 to June 2nd, 2020. It is immediately clear that there was a large increase in the daily number 
of posted messages, corresponding with the date of the press conference where the lockdown 
measures were announced. Up until May 11th, the activity on Nabohjelp was relatively stable. For 
the first month in the data set, period 1, the number of messages averaged 54,9 with a standard 
deviation of 10,2, see Table 2. In the following two weeks, period 2, the average jumped to 183,4, 
with a standard deviation of 76,8. A peak was reached on March 15th 2020, when 429 messages 
were posted. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
934 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 2 Number of messages posted during period Feb 12th - June 2nd 
The activity remained high until April 9th, after which it started to gradually decrease. In the final 
month of the dataset, period 4, the average number of daily messages was 120,3 with a standard 
deviation of 23,9. This is more than twice as many as in the period before the lockdown.32 It is also 
worth to notice that there is no indication in the data for period 1 that would suggest that a national 
lockdown was imminent. On March 11th, 2020, the number of posted messages was 42, about one 
standard deviation below the average of that period. 
Table 2 Average number of daily messages posted to Nabohjelp and standard deviation 
Period 
Dates 
Average number of 
daily messages 
Standard deviation of  
daily messages 
Period 1 
February 12 - March 11 
54,9 
10,2 
Period 2 
March 12 - March 26 
183,4 
76,8 
Period 3 
March 27 - April 11 
169,1 
23,3 
Period 4 
May 2 - June 2 
120,3 
23,9 
All data 
February 12 - June 2 
133,9 
66,3 
 
 
 
 
The metadata for each message contains information about the types of messages that were 
posted. There are four types which the user chooses among when posting a message: The type 
“commerce” deals with sharing items either for free or against payment, “information” with 
broadcasting an announcement to neighbours, “offer” and “request” for respectively offering and 
asking for support, either for free or against payment.  
 
32 A comparison of the sample means using a two-sided t-test gives a p-value <0.001. 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
01 February 2020
01 March 2020
01 April 2020
01 May 2020
01 June 2020Covid
-
19 lockdown
lockdown

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
935 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 3 Number of messages per day, sorted by message type 
By graphing the development of posts by message type, see Figure 3, it becomes even more clear 
that the spike in messages after March 12th was atypical. While the majority of messages posted 
are usually requests for help of some kind, there was a week from March 12th to March 18th where 
offers to help outnumbered the requests. Secondly, the peak in messages of the offering and 
information type occurred on March 15th, while requests for help occurred about three weeks 
later, on April 9th. The commerce type messages peaked on April 5th. 
 
 
Table 3 The number and percentage of posted messages by type for each sample period 
 Message type 
Period 1 
Feb 12 - Mar 11 
Period 2 
Mar 12 - Mar 26 
Period 3 
Mar 27 - Apr 11 
Period 4 
May 2 - Jun 2 
Complete 
dataset 
Commerce  
335 
206 
547 
883 
2781 
Information 
57 
93 
87 
103 
457 
Offer 
148 
1455 
789 
252 
3148 
Request 
1002 
1189 
1637 
2510 
8611 
Total  
1542 
2943 
3060 
3748 
14997 
Commerce  
22 % 
7 % 
18 % 
24 % 
19 % 
Information 
4 % 
3 % 
3 % 
3 % 
3 % 
Offer 
10 % 
49 % 
26 % 
7 % 
21 % 
Request 
65 % 
40 % 
53 % 
67 % 
57 % 
Total 
100 % 
100 % 
100 % 
100 % 
100 % 
Note: The table reports the frequency of Nabohjelp messages of various types, in absolute numbers and as percentages. 
The percentages are calculated as the number of messages of a given type, divided by the total number of messages in the 
respective period. 
 
Table 4 Distribution of covid-19 related messages in the samples (n = 400) 
 
Period 1 
Feb 12 - Mar 11 
Period 2 
Mar 12 - Mar 26 
Period 3 
Mar 27 - Apr 11 
Period 4 
May 2 - Jun 2 
Covid-19 
Covid-19 
Covid-19 
Covid-19 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
01 February 2020
01 March 2020
01 April 2020
01 May 2020
01 June 2020
Request
Offer
Commerce
InfoCovid
-
19 lockdown
lockdown

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
936 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Type 
Total 
Explicit 
Implicit 
Total 
Explicit 
Implicit 
Total 
Explicit 
Implicit 
Total 
Explicit 
Implicit 
Commerce 
  (% related) 
18 
(0%) 
3 
(67%
) 
1 
1 
18 
(0%) 
23 
(0%) 
Information 
  (% related) 
2 
(0%) 
2 
(0%) 
1 
(0%) 
1 
(0%) 
Offer 
  (% related) 
12 
(0%) 
57 
(79%
) 
42 
3 
27 
(67%
) 
12 
6 
6 
(0%) 
Request 
  (% related) 
68 
(1%) 
1 
 
38 
(24%
) 
8 
1 
54 
(11%
) 
5 
1 
70 
(1%) 
 
1 
Total 
100 
1 
100 
51 
5 
100 
17 
7 
100 
1 
Note: The table summarizes the number of messages that are either explicitly or implicitly related to the covid-
19 pandemic, according to message type. % related shows the share for the given message type that was found 
to be related to covid-19. In total, 100 messages were sampled from each of the four periods, n= 400. 
 
The results from the in-depth content analysis are summarized in Table 4, where the sample 
messages are also sorted according to message type. In period 1, only one message was found to 
implicitly refer to covid-19, and none did so explicitly. Thus, 99% of messages in period 1 were about 
unrelated topics. The single atypical message refers to the delayed delivery of a product from China 
due to covid-19. Most messages in period 1 (68) are of the request type, and most requests are 
concrete describing specific user needs and looking for helpers with or without professional 
competence. Some examples are:  
Car will not start - I have a [car model and colour] that won’t start. It looks like the battery has run 
out of power. If anyone has a starter cable I could borrow, I would have greatly appreciated it [smiley 
emoticon]. I live in [address]. 
Help with moving - Hi, I am picking up a piano at [area] and transporting it to [area]. From 1st floor 
to 1st floor. Anyone? We’ll agree on a price [smiley emoticon]. 
In addition to such requests, some users ask for advice, e.g., about the best agreement with a power 
supplier, and some look for apartments available for rent. The sample in period 1 also includes 18 
messages of commerce type, all of which were give-aways and sales adds, and 12 messages of offer 
type. The two messages of information type are both about lost and found items. 
In period 2, 56 out of the 100 messages in the sample, refer to covid-19. Of these, 51 refer explicitly 
to the pandemic, and 5 messages make an implicit reference. Differently from period 1, and in line 
with the population of messages, offer is the most used type in period 2. Among the 57 messages 
of offer type in the sample, 45 (79 %) have a title and/or body relating them to covid-19. Request is 
the second most used type, with 9 out of 38 messages (24 %) related to covid-19. 2 out of 3 
messages of type commerce were related to covid-19, one selling disinfectants, and one selling 
toilet paper, both of which we know were scare commodities at the time. Finally, there were two 
messages of type information, both unrelated to covid-19.  
The messages of type offer in period 2 were typically more open in scope and time than the 
messages from period 1. Some examples of period 2 offers related to covid-19 are: 
Walk dog - Hi! If anyone in these corona times have difficulties with walking their dog, I have a boy 
who would gladly help. He is 8,5 years old and has had his own dog since he was small.   

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
937 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Shopping help for corona exposed -Are you in quarantine or isolation? Are you in the risk group, and 
want to limit leaving home? If you need help to shop, go to the pharmacy or other important errands, 
I gladly assist. I’m not in the risk group and wish to do a “dugnad” [Norwegian term not translated] 
contribution and to limit the extent of the contagion we are exposed to. We will take necessary 
precautions to avoid infection! This will not cost you anything of course, other than paying for your 
own goods [smiley emoticon]. 
Quarantine help - I’m home on leave since I work in a kindergarten. My fingers ITCH after doing 
something! Need help with sundries, send me a message!  
Some examples of requests that relates to covid-19 are: 
Help to shop food - Hi! We have symptoms of cold and are staying indoors. We therefore need help 
from some kind souls to buy food for us. Send a message if you have the opportunity. Thank you! 
Anyone who can pick up a delivery in [area]? - Have a postal package that must be picked up by 
[date]. I am in home quarantine and should avoid this myself.  
In period 3 we observe that, already within two weeks, the share of covid-19 related messages was 
on the way down. In total, 23 % were found to be either explicitly or implicitly related to the 
pandemic, compared to 56 % in period 2. This decrease can be associated with both a lower share 
of the offer type (27 %), and a lower share of request type being covid-19 related. In period 3, 11% 
of requests contained a reference to the pandemic, compared to 24% of requests in period 2. As 
shown in Figure 3, the number of daily requests on the app approximately doubled from the 
beginning to the end of period 3, but there is no evidence in the content of the messages that this 
increase relates to the pandemic. 
In period 4, there were no messages with content explicitly related to covid-19. A single message, 
possibly implicitly related to the lockdown, came from a couple asking to borrow a modem after 
their home office internet broke down. Similar to many other countries, several Norwegian 
employees have worked from home during 2020 and 2021. In terms of the type of the messages, 
we observe that by period 4, the app usage had returned to a behaviour that resembles the pre-
lock down time of period 1. Among the six messages of offer type in period 4, two were related to 
child- and animal care, while two were give-aways of furniture and a plant. The remaining two were 
general offers of helping with chores. 23 of the sample messages were posts of the commerce type, 
where most of them related to selling furniture, leftover materials (e.g., laminate flooring materials, 
kitchen cabinets, etc.) or interior. 70 of the messages were requests.  
Are the new users behaving like earlier users? 
This section reports quantitative evidence of changes in user behaviour during the period covered 
by the dataset. It covers both the addition of new active users, and the number of messages posted 
by these users. The analysis gives new knowledge to the question of whether users registered 
shortly after March 12th behave differently than app users registered at an earlier date.  
The term "active user" is used to refer to users who posted at least one message to Nabohjelp 
between February 12th 2020 and June 2nd 2020, so that the user's registration date is in the 
dataset. The app provider claims that the majority of people who register on the app never post a 
message. 
User registration over time 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
938 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The registration of active users has been relatively stable over the previous two years. In 2018, an 
average of 158 active users we registered per month. In 2019 the average was 132. For January and 
February in 2020, the average was 165 new active users. During March 2020, the number of active 
users increased dramatically with new 1799 users, and 1180 extra in April 2020. In May 2020 there 
were 395 registrations of active users. Table 7 lists the number of observed user registrations in 
each sample period. In the month leading up to the crisis (period 1) 256 active users were 
registered. This is twice as many as the monthly average of 2019 and indicates that the rate of user 
registration was already accelerating. In periods 2, 3 and 4, the respective numbers of observed 
user registrations were 1273, 987 and 390. In total, the dataset contains messages from 8665 
individual users. 5384 (62 %) of them registered before March 12th 2020 and 3281 (38 %) registered 
on March 12th or later. In the following, we will refer to the first group as pre-existing users, and 
the latter as new users. 
Table 6 The number of new active users of Nabohjelp during the spring of 2020 
Period 
Date 
User registrations 
Period 1 
Feb. 12 – Mar. 11 
256 
Period 2 
Mar. 12 – Mar. 26 
1273 
Period 3 
Mar. 27 – Apr. 11 
987 
Period 4 
May 2 – Jun. 2 
390 
 
The distribution of daily registrations in the first five months of 2020 is illustrated in Figure 5. It 
shows a spike in registrations on March 15th that coincides with the spike in messages the same 
day. It also shows that after the initial boost in period 2, the influx of new active users continued in 
period 3. April 16th, 2020 was the last day that Nabohjelp experienced more than 50 registrations 
of active users in a single day. The average number of daily registrations of active users in May 2020 
was 12,7. This is about twice as high as the daily average between January 1st 2020 and March 11th 
of 6,2 new active users. 
 
Figure 5 Daily registrations of active users of Nabohjelp (1.1.2020 – 31.5.2020)  
Sharing behaviour by new and pre-existing users 
Figure 6 graphs the number of messages posted daily by users registered up to and including March 
11th and those who registered on March 12th or later. It shows that both groups were active in 
posting messages in the initial days after the lockdown. In other words, the public responded rapidly 
to the crisis, also by downloading Nabohjelp if they had not done so already. On March 15th, new 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
01/01/2020
01/02/2020
01/03/2020
01/04/2020
01/05/2020

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
939 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
users posted more messages than pre-existing users, with 228 and 201 messages respectively. 
However, despite that the number of new active users continued to grow, the number of daily 
messages soon fell back below that of pre-existing users. The fact that most messages throughout 
the lockdown came from pre-existing users may be attributed to a relatively high number of pre-
existing users.  
 
Figure 6 The number of daily messages by users registered before and after March 12th 2020 
New users contributed with 0 % of messages in period 1, and 39 %, 40 %, 33 % of messages in 
periods 2-4 respectively. In the sample drawn for the in-depth study, 23 out of the 56 covid-19-
related messages in period 2 (41 %) were posted by new users. The fact that new users posted 39% 
of all messages and 41% of the covid-19-related messages in period 2 suggests that the kind of 
messages posted by new and pre-existing users was similar in nature. Figure 7 provides more 
information on this point, by separating messages according to message type. The overall picture 
is that both new and pre-existing users posted few Commerce and Information type messages, and 
that the development of Request type messages is similar for the two user groups. The main 
distinction in the behaviour of new users seems to be that they were responsible for a second wave 
in Offer messages, between March 22nd and April 6th. This increase in offers is not apparent in the 
data for pre-existing users. Instead, it matches the high level of registrations of new active users in 
the same period. 
0
50
100
150
200
25012/02/202019/02/202026/02/202004/03/202011/03/202018/03/202025/03/202001/04/202008/04/202015/04/202022/04/202029/04/202006/05/202013/05/202020/05/202027/05/2020
Users registered post lockdown
Users registered pre lockdown

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
940 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 7 The number of daily messages posted by pre-existing and new users, by message type 
Messages per user 
0
50
100
150
20012/02/202012/03/202012/04/202012/05/2020
Request
Old users
New users
0
50
100
150
20012/02/202012/03/202012/04/202012/05/2020
Offer
Old users
New users
0
50
100
150
20012/02/202012/03/202012/04/202012/05/2020
Commerce
Old users
New users
0
50
100
150
20012/02/202012/03/202012/04/202012/05/2020
Information
Old users
New users

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
941 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
To investigate whether the new users were more or less active in posting messages than pre-
existing users, we calculated the share of users posting between 1 and 10 messages. The results are 
provided in Table 7. One thing to note here is that the pre-existing users had more time to post 
several messages, as they span the entire period that we investigate, totalling 111 days. The new 
users were, by definition, only present from March 12th, giving them 82 days to be observed. With 
35 % more days, it should be expected that a higher share of the pre-existing users would be posting 
more than one message. This is also what is found in the data: 73 % of the new users have posted 
only one message on the app. This compares to 64 % of the pre-existing users.  
In total, the 3 281 new users posted 4988 messages, giving an average of 1,52 messages per new 
user. In comparison, the 5 384 pre-existing users posted 10 009 messages, with an average of 1,86 
messages pr user. The maximum number of messages by a single user is 27, equally for both the 
new and pre-existing users. The 1 % of pre-existing users that posted 10 or more messages 
contributed 10 % of all messages posted by that group. Among the new users, 0,5 % of them posted 
10 or more messages, generating 4 % of the messages by new users. 
Table 7 The number of messages per user, by user group (from February 12th, 2020 to and including June 2nd 2020) 
Messages per user 
Share of messages 
posted by new users 
Share of messages  
posted by old users 
Share of new users 
Share of old users 
1 
48 % 
34 % 
73 % 
64 % 
2 
23 % 
21 % 
17 % 
19 % 
3 
10 % 
12 % 
5 % 
7 % 
4-10 
16 % 
25 % 
5 % 
8 % 
>10 
4 % 
9 % 
0 % 
1 % 
Sum 
100 % 
100 % 
100 % 
100 % 
N 
4 988 
10 009 
3 281 
5 384 
Note: The table shows the number of messages that users post on the Nabohjelp platform. New and old users refer to users 
registered before and after the covid-19 lockdown of March 12th 2020 respectively. 
Discussion 
The key question we address in this article is how the sharing economy can help to alleviate 
difficulties that arise with policies related to pandemic lockdown, including strict rules for social 
distancing. The previous section addressed the specific case of using the sharing app Nabohjelp in 
the first wave of the covid-19 pandemic in Norway. In this section, we summarize the results and 
discuss their relevancy to other settings and earlier findings in the literature on crisis management. 
The lockdown led to increased app usage 
First of all, there is convincing evidence that the covid-19 lockdown strongly influenced both the 
usage and number of users of Nabohjelp. We observed a large jump in the number of messages 
posted per day that coincided in time with the announcement of the lock down measures on March 
12th, 2020. Prior to this date, there were no indications in the data that there would be significant 
changes in the activity level. Indeed, the lockdown took the public by surprise. An official Norwegian 
report about the government's handling of the corona pandemic shows that the Norwegian director 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
942 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
of health was given the task of identifying relevant measures to stop the spread of covid-19 less 
than 24 hours before the lockdown became a reality (NOU 2021:6, , part 3).  
The large changes in app usage that literally happened overnight from March 12th to 13th 2020 
supports claims from Frenken (2017) and Seddighi and Baharmand (2020) that the sharing economy 
has the potential to serve rare peaks in demands from citizens in crisis and to reduce the burden 
on public organizations. In this case, the Nabohjelp app seems to have facilitated the matching of 
users with needs and users with residual capacities within a close geographic area. Placed in the 
framework proposed by Seddighi and Baharmand (2020) that defines the different roles the sharing 
economy may play in disaster management, Nabohjelp fits the role of contributor. In other words, 
Nabohjelp may enhance community resilience by providing access to an extended network of 
resources and things. 
Our analysis of the content of the messages provides further evidence for that the spike in app 
usage was driven by the lockdown. Only one of the hundred sampled messages from the month 
leading up to the lockdown (period 1) is related to covid-19. In contrast, 56 % of the sampled 
messages from the following two weeks (period 2) were referring to the pandemic. The fact that 
44 % of messages in period 2 did not have clear references to the pandemic does not necessarily 
mean that there would have been an increase in usage regardless of the social isolation policies. 
For example, several of these messages were offers to help with shopping for groceries, an activity 
that was not very prominent in period 1. This indicates that more messages in the samples are 
related to the need for social isolation than those identified as directly or indirectly related to covid-
19. The challenge with classifying such messages as covid-19 related is that the phrasing does not 
support a clear differentiation from similar messages posted before the lock-down. As such, our 
measure of messages related to covid-19 should be regarded as a conservative lower bound, rather 
than a point estimate. 
The increase in activity since March 12th is also evident in the number of daily new active users. 
Our findings show that the influx of new users was exceptionally high for about a month (until April 
14th) and that it continued to sustain a higher rate than in the pre-lockdown period. The newly 
registered users immediately contributed to a large share of posted messages. This indicates that 
the public quickly identified Nabohjelp as a potentially relevant channel for communication and 
coordination. Within two weeks, the development team at OBOS responded by designing and 
launching an information campaign on how to install and use their app, which helps to explain the 
second wave of user registrations and offers by new users, starting from March 22nd. 
The pattern of use changed significantly when the lockdown came into effect, but the changes 
appear to have been temporary. During period 2, both new and pre-existing users posted a higher 
share of messages classified as offerings, typically not demanding any payment, and with a scope 
that was more open than what was observed in messages from period 1. This pattern continued in 
the two following weeks (period 3) with a steady addition of new active users posting offering 
messages, while the pre-existing users returned to using the messages of type request as the most 
frequently used. One and half month after the effective date of the lockdown (period 4), overall 
app usage appears to be very similar to that of period 1, except for the number of daily messages 
being considerably higher than before the lockdown.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
943 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Both new and pre-existing users were driven by context dependent 
motives 
The temporal shift in message content that was observed likely indicates a temporal shift in the 
user's motivations to use the platform, and that this was a shift towards more socially oriented 
motives. The fact that the number of messages per user was very similar for new and pre-existing 
users, and that the two user groups have near equal shares off messages that are identified as 
covid-19 related, is consistent with the view that the lockdown did not attract users with 
fundamentally different motivations for participating in sharing.  
We interpret the results as evidence for both new and pre-existing users having context dependent 
motivations for participating. When society is functioning with a large degree of normality, app 
usage appears to be driven primarily by specific short-term needs. But when the society enters a 
new situation, or context, such as a national crisis, this is immediately reflected in the sharing 
behaviour. In a time of crisis, there is an increased expression of social motives, such as the 
willingness to help, that is evident until society returns to normal. We see from the results that the 
altruistic behaviour is driven by both empathy with those who become socially isolated, and by new 
opportunities to help that arise from being more at home with more time for leisure activities.  
At the individual level, context dependent motivations can be expressed as a desire for flexibility. 
Both (Akin et al., 2021) and (Gazzola, Vătămănescu, Andrei, & Marrapodi, 2019) have argued that 
flexibility and convenience are important prerequisites for users of sharing economy platforms, and 
that these aspects are key enablers for well-functioning sharing. One strategy to obtain flexibility is 
illustrated by Bellotti et al. (2015) who show that sharing economy participants may use different 
sharing platforms for different purposes. In their study, they make a clear distinction between users 
who provide resources on a platform (e.g., an Uber driver) and users who receive a resource (e.g., 
an Uber passenger), and show how the underlying motivations differ between these roles. As the 
current study has shown, Nabohjelp allows the users to act as both provider and receiver at will 
and the platform is flexible enough to accommodate sudden changes in the user needs and 
resource availability. This may explain how the activity on Nabohjelp increased as much as it did 
during the crisis.  
Business model implications 
The observed changes in app usage provides new insights into the motivations driving sharing 
economy participation. Earlier studies have typically sought to differentiate between materialistic 
and altruistic motives among users and platform providers, relying on self-reported accounts in 
single round interviews or surveys (see e.g., Akin et al., 2021; Bellotti et al., 2015). Such studies are 
susceptible to experimenter-demand effects where subjects seek to comply with perceived 
expectations from the researcher. In addition, they are unlikely to capture dynamics that arise with 
unexpected changes in user needs. 
In contrast, with detailed information of actual app usage, the quantitative data in this study are 
objective, and the findings derived from the qualitative data are only dependent on the researchers' 
own analysis and presentation. Secondly, the longitudinal dimension of our dataset enables us to 
follow evolutions in app usage over time. This also allowed us to identify the similar behaviour of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
944 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
new and pre-existing users, both in the immediate crisis and in a more normalized situation. This 
finding rejects the idea that the crisis attracted a new kind of users to the platform, but further 
studies are needed to characterize the concept of context-dependent preferences of sharing 
economy participants. 
While we have shown that Nabohjelp was used by thousands of people seeking or offering help in 
a time of great uncertainty, this study does not discuss how governments should engage with 
platform providers to mobilise the sharing economy in future crises. E.g., Seddighi and Baharmand 
(2020) observe that implementing sharing economy platforms in crisis management can challenge 
coordination by expanding the set of decision makers and stakeholders. It is also conceivable that 
some offers to help that were displayed on Nabohjelp would have made a larger impact if it was 
directed towards established organisations, such as the local red cross. These examples suggest 
that there is still a large need for studying collaboration and information sharing across 
stakeholders from different sectors, i.e., public, private, and volunteering.  
 
Concluding remarks  
This paper presented the population of messages on the Nabohjelp app in the immediate time 
before and after lockdown measures were introduced in Norway in March 2020 due to the covid-
19 pandemic. Besides providing a detailed description of the people's reaction to the "new normal", 
the study also gives new insights on the more general topic of the usefulness of sharing economy 
platforms as tools for crisis management. 
The study provides new evidence for the claim that p2p sharing economy platforms, such as 
Nabohjelp, can create more robust societies and play an important role in crisis management. In 
the case of the covid-19 pandemic in Norway, the platform connected people at the local level 
without the need to meet physically, so that they could communicate needs and abilities to help. 
The willingness to help others in a time of crisis was spontaneous and the sharing economy platform 
was able to meet this sudden change in needs, as predicted by Frenken (2017). Both pre-existing 
and new users were quick to use Nabohjelp in this way. 
Crisis management is not the intended purpose of the Nabohjelp platform, and the response 
happened without the involvement of public authorities. This is in line with Seddighi and 
Baharmand (2020) who found that disaster managers seldom coordinate with sharing economy 
providers before disaster strikes, despite the potential benefits this can have. The study further 
extends their framework to the recovery phase since Seddighi and Baharmand were unable to find 
any studies or examples that could validate the role of the sharing economy in the recovery phase 
of a crisis. The results of our in-depth analysis of message content indicate that app usage had 
returned to normal within the data period, and we show that the p2p sharing economy can assume 
the role of "contributor" also after the preparation and response phases.  
The findings should be relevant for app developers and investors, as well as crisis managers, 
governments and local societies struggling with the pandemic. With vaccination efforts still ongoing 
in many parts of the world, the covid-19 pandemic continues to require social distancing through 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
945 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
forced and self-imposed isolation. Luckily, the p2p sharing economy can facilitate assistance to at 
least some  who need it.  
 
References 
Akin, D., Jakobsen, K., Floch, J., & Hoff, E. (2021). Sharing with neighbours: Insights from local practices of the 
sharing 
economy. 
Technology 
in 
Society, 
64, 
, 
101481. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techsoc.2020.101481 
Arvidsson, A. (2018). Value and virtue in the sharing economy. The Sociological Review, 66(2), 289-301. 
doi:10.1177/0038026118758531 
Bellotti, V., Ambard, A., Turner, D., Gossmann, C., Demkova, K., & Carroll, J. M. (2015). A Muddle of Models 
of Motivation for Using Peer-to-Peer Economy Systems. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the 
33rd Annual ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. 
Botsman, 
R. 
(2013). 
The 
sharing 
economy 
lacks 
a 
shared 
definition. 
Retrieved 
from 
https://www.fastcompany.com/3022028/the-sharing-economy-lacks-a-shared-definition  
Botsman, R., & Rogers, R. (2011). What's Mine Is Yours: How Collaborative Consumption is Changing the Way 
We Live. London: Collins. 
Böcker, L., & Meelen, T. (2017). Sharing for people, planet or profit? Analysing motivations for intended 
sharing economy participation. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, 23, 28-39. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eist.2016.09.004 
Creswell, J. W., & Plano Clark, V. L. (2010). Designing and conducting mixed methods research (2 ed.). 
Thousand Oaks: Sage. 
Frenken, K. (2017). Political economies and environmental futures for the sharing economy. Philosophical 
Transactions of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, 375(2095), , 
20160367. doi:doi:10.1098/rsta.2016.0367 
Gazzola, P., Vătămănescu, E. M., Andrei, A. G., & Marrapodi, C. (2019). Users' motivations to participate in 
the sharing economy: Moving from profits toward sustainable development. Corporate Social 
Responsibility and Environmental Management, 26(4), 741-751.  
Glaser, B. G., & Strauss, A. (1967). Discovery of grounded theory: strategies for qualitative research. New York: 
Aldine de Gruyter. 
Hamari, J., Sjöklint, M., & Ukkonen, A. (2016). The sharing economy: Why people participate in collaborative 
consumption. Journal of the association for information science and technology, 67(9), 2047-2059.  
Krippendorff, K. (2019). Content Analysis: An Introduction to its Methodology (Fourth Edition ed.). Los 
Angeles: SAGE Publications. 
NOU 2021:6. The Government's handling of the corona pandemic – Report from the corona commission. 
Official Norwegian Report. .  Retrieved from https://www.regjeringen.no/no/dokumenter/nou-
2021-6/id2844388/ 
NTB. (2020, Retrieved 06 October 2020). Statsminister Erna Solbergs tale om Koronatiltakene. Aftenposten. 
Retrieved 
from 
URL: 
https://www.aftenposten.no/norge/politikk/i/zG1b4r/statsminister-
ernasolbergs-tale-om-koronatiltakene 
Schor, J. (2014). Debating the Sharing Economy. A Great Transition Initiative Essay. Online: Great Transition 
Initiative. Retrieved from https://greattransition.org/images/Schor-Debating-Sharing-Economy.pdf 
Schor, J. B., Fitzmaurice, C., Carfagna, L. B., Attwood-Charles, W., & Poteat, E. D. (2016). Paradoxes of 
openness 
and 
distinction 
in 
the 
sharing 
economy. 
Poetics, 
54, 
66-81. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.poetic.2015.11.001 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
946 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Schor, J. B., & Fitzmaurice, C. J. ( 2015). Collaborating and connecting: the emergence of the sharing economy. 
In L. A. Reisch & J. Thøgersen (Eds.), Handbook of research on sustainable consumption. : Edward 
Elgar Publishing. 
Seddighi, H., & Baharmand, H. (2020). Exploring the role of the sharing economy in disasters management. 
Technology in Society, 63, , 101363. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techsoc.2020.101363 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
947 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Appendix A 
Sample representativeness 
Table A.8 presents the distribution of messages by type for the 100 messages that were randomly 
drawn from each sample period for the in-depth content analysis and for the total population of 
messages. The distribution of messages in the samples is close to that of the message population, 
indicating that the samples are representative for the app usage in these periods. 
Table A.8 The distribution of posted messages by type in samples from period 1-4 
  
Message type 
Period 1 
Feb 12 - Mar 11  
Period 2  
Mar 12 - Mar 26 
Period 3 
Mar 27 - Apr 11 
Period 4 
May 2 - Jun 2 
Sample 
amount 
Commerce  
18 
3 
18 
23 
Information 
2 
2 
1 
1 
Offer 
12 
57 
27 
6 
Request 
68 
38 
54 
70 
  
Total 
100 
100 
100 
100 
Sample 
percentages 
Commerce  
18 % 
3 % 
18 % 
23 % 
Information 
2 % 
2 % 
1 % 
1 % 
Offer 
12 % 
57 % 
27 % 
6 % 
Request 
68 % 
38 % 
54 % 
70 % 
  
Total 
100 % 
100 % 
100 % 
100 % 
Population 
percentages 
Commerce  
22 % 
7 % 
18 % 
24 % 
Information 
4 % 
3 % 
3 % 
3 % 
Offer 
10 % 
49 % 
26 % 
7 % 
Request 
65 % 
40 % 
53 % 
67 % 
  
Total 
100 % 
100 % 
100 % 
100 % 
Note: The top panel in the table reports the frequency of messages of various types in absolute numbers. The middle and 
bottom panels display the distribution of messages by type for the samples and the overall population of messages 
respectively. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
948 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
A Proposed Framework for 
Sustainable Business Models in 
Sharing Economy Contexts 
 
Soha Abutaleb*, Noha El-Bassiouny  
*soha.abutaleb@tkh.edu.eg 
Introduction 
The sharing economy is now considered as a major building block for transitions to sustainability. It 
is also seen as a disruptive innovation facilitated by advanced technologies, mainly the Internet that 
significantly impacts the way businesses are developed and operated (Ferrell et al.,2017; Heinrichs, 
2013; Ritter and Schanz, 2019). The concept of sharing economy is widely used, but there is still 
confusion about the factors that comprise a sharing economy business model. The aim of the 
current paper is to propose a comprehensive framework for sharing economy business models to 
operate in a sustainable manner. 
Researchers of the sharing economy divided its role into three pillars; which are environmental, 
social and economic (Acquier et al., 2017; Cherry and Pidgeon, 2018). According to Botsman and 
Rogers (2010), sharing economy reduce resource utilization and idle capacity through focusing on 
having access rather than ownership such as carsharing and home sharing practices (Ritter and 
Schanz, 2019). Academics, media, practitioners, and policymakers are always promoting for sharing 
economy as a sustainable practice (Hassanli et al.,2019; Heinrichs, 2013). They assume that sharing 
economy practices reduce net consumption, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve 
material efficiency, as well as providing other economic and social benefits (Acquier et al., 2017; 
Hamari et al., 2016; Laukkanen and Tura, 2020). However, some researchers and studies showed 
that sharing economy may have negative consequences on sustainability outcomes. This is due to 
negative rebound effects that may lead to an increase in net consumption (Parguel et al., 2017; 
Plepys and Singh, 2019).  
For instance, Airbnb as a major sharing economy business model is blamed for increased housing 
prices, reducing local housing stock, and restoration, as well as displacement of local communities 
(Curtis and Mont, 2020). Uber and lyft are seen as a significant contributor to air pollution and 
traffic congestion (Plante, 2019). This can show that sharing economy is not sustainable by default; 
it must be re-structured, and businesses must be more cautious and strategic in how to design 
sustainable business models in the context of sharing economy. No tool currently exists to support 
sustainable business model innovation at the organizational level in the context of sharing economy 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
949 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
(Curtis and Mont, 2020). Also, it was found that no research discussed the impact of consumer 
behavior in developing sustainable business model in a sharing economy context. 
Business models are defined as “the rationale of how an organization creates, delivers, and captures 
value (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010:14). It is also defined by Teece (2010:179) as “A business 
model articulates the logic, the data and other evidence that support a value proposition for the 
customer, and a viable structure of revenues and costs for the enterprise delivering that value” 
Sustainable business models are referred to as creation of value for both customers and society 
through the integration of the environmental, social, and economic pillars of sustainability (Bocken 
et al., 2013; Geissdoerfer et al., 2018). To achieve sustainability goal through the big umbrella of 
sharing economy, thus sharing economy models should be considered in research and practice. 
Sharing economy business models are considered innovative businesses as well as a fast-growing 
part of economies with a very low cost of market entry. They also have a significant impact on 
traditional businesses due to their environmental, societal and economic positive effect towards 
sustainability (Geissdoerfer et al., 2018). 
Therefore, the current paper aims to provide a framework that may support the design and 
implementation of sharing economy business models for enhanced sustainability performance. This 
framework is based on consumer desires from the sharing practice as well as including the main 
three pillars of sustainability. In doing so, the researchers aim to make two contributions. First, to 
develop a model that considers consumer behavior and perceptions towards sustainability in 
building a sustainable model in sharing economy context. Second, to support practitioners and 
organizations in designing, implementing, and communicating sharing economy. 
Comprehensive Framework for Sharing Economy Business Models 
As stated by Heinrichs (2013) that sharing economy is believed to be the new prospective pathway 
to achieve sustainability, the below model is developed. Botsman and Rogers (2010) claim that 
sharing economy will disturb the unsustainable activities of hyper-consumption. The authors 
mentioned that sharing economy helps in shifting from a culture where consumers own their 
products to a new culture where consumers share and re-use products from cars to drills through 
the Internet and online platforms that facilitate communication between individuals. This shows 
that it all starts with changing consumer behaviors and impacting their understanding and 
perceptions towards the importance of sharing economy practices that contributes to 
sustainability. 
A study conducted by Keeble (2013) concluded that consumers who participate in sharing and 
collaborative practices induce three types of value perceptions. The first one is the 
economic/utilitarian value; where consumers have access to products by sharing rather than 
ownership, which lowers costs. The second value is hedonic; in which consumers have a feeling of 
enjoyment because of sharing and experiencing various options with other people. The hedonic 
value is mainly experienced with pro-social behaviors; where consumers feel that they are 
contributing to their environment and society. The last value is the symbolic one; which refers to 
social values where consumers are aware of the importance of sustainable consumption. Therefore, 
they try to consider the consequences of their behaviors on the environment when consuming gas 
or food (Hwang and Griffiths, 2017). Although research has proved that sustainability could be a 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
950 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
factor behind consumers’ sharing practices, however, the economic aspects still have the significant 
impact behind their consumption behaviors (Hamari et al.,2016; Li and Wen, 2019). 
Based on previous studies conducted in sharing economy contexts revealed that consumers 
encouraged to participate in sharing practices because of lower costs. Sharing economy practices 
help them to save money and reduce ownership of products. Also, having a positive environmental 
impact is a major reason behind consumers’ positive attitudes towards the concept of sharing 
economy (Li and Wen, 2019; Abutaleb et al., 2020). Other studies revealed that consumers have a 
sense of connection and social value when participating in sharing and collaborative communities. 
As well as sharing practices help in saving time as it is more convenient (Joo, 2017).  
Based on the results of previous studies and the aspects that are included in a sustainable business 
model the current model is developed to set the path for startups and companies to integrate 
sustainability, and consumer behavior into their sharing economy models. 
 
Figure1: Proposed model for a Sustainable Sharing Economy Business model based on 
Consumer Behavior Insights 
In conclusion, the aim of this paper is to contribute and propose the major aspects of a sustainable 
business model in the context of sharing economies. The proposed model shows the main pillars 
that should be in a sharing economy business model that leads and fits with sustainability pillars 
and goals as well as consumer behavior. The researchers developed the model based on 
comprehensive insights from the literature review and various studies conducted on explaining 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
951 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
sharing economy business models. For businesses to take major steps in transforming their sharing 
economy business models to more sustainable ones; they must focus on their consumers. It starts 
with changing consumer behavior and increase their awareness towards the importance of 
achieving the sustainability goals through their consumption patterns and purchasing behaviors. 
It is stated by Porter and Kramer (2011) that business model innovation offers a potential approach 
to deliver the required change, which is sharing economy models, through redesigning and re-
creating the value in parallel with sustainability. Businesses and startups need to redesign their 
business models through pursuing sustainability strategies, through integrating the environmental, 
societal, and economic aspects as well considering consumer behavior. Also, with the rising global 
sustainability pressures, it is important for businesses to collaborate with other stakeholders in 
creating sustainable strategies and business models (Lowitt, 2013). It is claimed that value is no 
longer created by firms only, however, it needs firms to act in collaboration with other parties to 
develop business models (Beattie and Smith, 2013). Therefore, the aim of this paper is to highlight 
the major role of consumers as a stakeholder in the development of sustainable business models 
in the context of sharing economy. 
Keywords:  
Sharing economy, Sustainability, business models, consumer behavior 
References 
Abutaleb, S., El-Bassiouny, N. and Hamed, S., (2020). Sharing rides and strides toward sustainability: an 
investigation of carpooling in an emerging market. Management of Environmental Quality: An 
International Journal. 
Acquier, A., Daudigeos, T. and Pinkse, J., (2017). Promises and paradoxes of the sharing economy: An 
organizing framework. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 125, pp.1-10. 
Beattie, V. and Smith, S.J., (2013). Value creation and business models: Refocusing the intellectual capital 
debate. The British Accounting Review, 45(4), pp.243-254. 
Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P. and Evans, S., (2013). A value mapping tool for sustainable business 
modelling. Corporate Governance. 
Bocken, N.M., Short, S.W., Rana, P. and Evans, S., (2014). A literature and practice review to develop 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner production, 65, pp.42-56. 
Botsman, R. and Rogers, R., (2010). What’s mine is yours. The rise of collaborative consumption, 1. 
Cherry, C.E. and Pidgeon, N.F., (2018). Is sharing the solution? Exploring public acceptability of the sharing 
economy. Journal of cleaner production, 195, pp.939-948. 
Curtis, S.K. and Mont, O., (2020). Sharing economy business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 266, p.121519. 
Ferrell, O.C., Ferrell, L. and Huggins, K., (2017). Seismic shifts in the sharing economy: Shaking up marketing 
channels and supply chains. Journal of Marketing Channels, 24(1-2), pp.3-12. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D. and Evans, S., (2018). Sustainable business model innovation: A review. 
Journal of cleaner production, 198, pp.401-416. 
Hamari, J., Sjöklint, M. and Ukkonen, A., (2016). The sharing economy: Why people participate in 
collaborative consumption. Journal of the association for information science and technology, 
67(9), pp.2047-2059. 
Hassanli, N., Small, J. and Darcy, S., (2019). The representation of Airbnb in newspapers: a critical discourse 
analysis. Current Issues in Tourism, pp.1-13. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
952 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Heinrichs, H., (2013). Sharing economy: a potential new pathway to sustainability. Gaia, 22(4), p.228. 
Hwang, J. and Griffiths, M.A., (2017). Share more, drive less: Millennials value perception and behavioral 
intent in using collaborative consumption services. Journal of Consumer Marketing. 
Joo, J.H., (2017). Motives for participating in sharing economy: Intentions to use car sharing services. 
Journal of Distribution Science, 15(2), pp.21-26. 
Keeble, J., (2013). Young consumers hold the key to sustainable brands. The Guardian, 18. 
Laukkanen, M. and Tura, N., (2020). The potential of sharing economy business models for sustainable value 
creation. Journal of Cleaner production, 253, p.120004. 
Li, H. and Wen, H., (2019). How is motivation generated in collaborative consumption: mediation effect in 
extrinsic and intrinsic motivation. Sustainability, 11(3), p.640. 
Lowitt, E., (2013). The collaboration economy: How to meet business, social, and environmental needs and 
gain competitive advantage. John Wiley & Sons. 
Osterwalder, A. and Pigneur, Y., (2010). Business model generation: a handbook for visionaries, game 
changers, and challengers (Vol. 1). John Wiley & Sons. 
Parguel, B., Lunardo, R. and Benoit-Moreau, F., (2017). Sustainability of the sharing economy in question: 
When second-hand peer-to-peer platforms stimulate indulgent consumption. Technological 
Forecasting and Social Change, 125, pp.48-57. 
Plante, S.G., (2019). Uber and Lyft have admitted to making traffic worse in some US cities. Vox. 
Plepys, A. and Singh, J., (2019). Evaluating the sustainability impacts of the sharing economy using input-
output analysis. In A research agenda for sustainable consumption governance. Edward Elgar 
Publishing. 
Porter, M.E. and Kramer, M.R., (2019). Creating shared value. In Managing sustainable business (pp. 323-
346). Springer, Dordrecht. 
Ritter, M. and Schanz, H., (2019). The sharing economy: A comprehensive business model framework. 
Journal of cleaner production, 213, pp.320-331. 
Teece, D.J., (2010). Business models, business strategy and innovation. Long range planning, 43(2-3), 
pp.172-194. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
953 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Exploring consumer preferences in 
Mobility-as-a-Service platforms 
 
Alexia Athanasopoulou1,*, and Vivian Tunn2,* 
1Eindhoven University of Technology, Eindhoven, The Netherlands; 
2Copernicus Institute of Sustainable Development, Utrecht University, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands 
*a.athanasopoulou@tue.nl 
Extended abstract 
Introduction 
Enabled by digitalisation, Mobility-as-a-Service (MaaS) platforms typically present shared mobility, 
public transport, and ride-hailing services in a single mobile application and include services related 
to payment, e-ticketing, and journey planning (Sakai, 2019). Such platforms could reduce single-car 
trips, traffic congestion, pollution levels, and CO2 emissions, and thus contribute to cities'  
sustainable development (Utriainen & Pöllänen, 2018). MaaS platforms are triggering changes in 
the business models within the mobility ecosystem (Athanasopoulou et al., 2019). Examples of 
national MaaS platforms are Hely in the Netherlands (hely.com), Skedo in the USA (skedgo.com), 
and Istmobil in Austria (istmobil.at).  
MaaS platforms could fundamentally change mobility by providing alternative travel and commute 
options to consumers. The MaaS mobile applications present consumers with multiple MSPs 
alternatives to reach their destination, enabling them to easily compare prices and travel times 
across transport modes. Previous research has identified several service attributes that influence 
consumer adoption of shared mobility services, such as convenience, price, travel time, and data 
privacy (e.g., Poppelaars et al., 2018; Rahimi et al., 2020; Tirachini et al., 2020; Tunn et al., 2021). 
Whilst consumer adoption of various modes of mobility has been extensively studied, less is known 
about consumer preference for mobility services and consumer segments within MaaS platforms. 
For MSPs it is important to identify the service attributes determining consumer preference to 
identify relevant consumer segments for their service. 
To better understand consumer preference in MaaS platforms, this study addresses the research 
questions: (i) Which service attributes influence consumer preference for mobility providers within 
MaaS platforms? (ii) What consumer segments can be distinguished based on consumer 
preferences? We analyse the influence of mobility service attributes, such as convenience, price, 
transportation mean, sustainability, personal space, and data privacy, on consumer preference for 
MSPs. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
954 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Methodology 
To investigate the influence of mobility services attributes on consumer preference within MaaS 
platforms, we apply the Q-methodology (Brown, 1996; Van Exel & de Graaf, 2005). The Q-
methodology is used to find shared viewpoint patterns on a topic of interest. The identified 
viewpoint patterns can be considered as common among the target population and thus reflect the 
main viewpoints of consumers regarding the way they choose services in a MaaS platform. In this 
case, a viewpoint pattern can be described as a segment comprising consumers with similar 
preferences. 
We designed an online survey including sorting statements and a short questionnaire. Participants 
first read a scenario, the scenario describes that Ingrid needs to travel six kilometres from a train 
station to a work meeting and uses a MaaS app to compare mobility alternatives. Providing this 
scenario ensured that all participants have the same context in mind for the subsequent task.  
Participants then ordered statements related to mobility service attributes and the question ‘For 
the scenario above, how do the aspects from the list influence Ingrid’s preference on the route to 
her final destination?’. Participants had to place the statements in a forced distribution grid (see 
Figure 1) which has a single scale (Valenta & Wigger, 1997; Kroesen, 2013) ranging from -3 
(decreases preference), 0 (no influence), to +3 (increases preference).  
Participants were recruited via the platform Prolific in exchange for a small financial reward for 
their participation. The sample consists of n=107 respondents who reside in the Netherlands (mean 
age 28, 52% female, 46% male, 2% prefer not to say). Only 20% of respondents stated that they had 
used shared mobility and 88% public transport in the three months prior to the survey. 
 
 
FIGURE 1.  THE Q-SORT DISTRIBUTION GRID. 
We performed a Q-factor analysis with the collected data. This analysis identifies distinct viewpoints 
of the MaaS platform. A Centroid Extraction paired with a Varimax rotation was applied to achieve 
an orthogonal rotation. We retained the six viewpoints, also referred to as factors, with eigenvalues 
exceeding 1. The final step of the Q-methodology is to classify the respondents based on their factor 
loadings. For n=17 (the number of statements) significant factor loadings (p < 0.05) should exceed 
1.96 (1÷ √n) (Brown, 1980). Hence, factor loadings with an absolute value exceeding 0.47 are 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
955 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
considered significant in our study. In case participants load significantly on multiple factors, we 
retain only the highest loading factor. 
Results 
The analysis of the sorted statements resulted in four significant factors, each representing a 
different consumer segment. These segments differ in the drivers of preference for mobility 
services on MaaS platforms. Ten respondents load the highest on factor 1. In this factor, statements 
related to low cost, short travel time and minimum walking rank the highest, with statements 
referring to longer walking times to rank the lowest. In factor 2, 19 participants had the highest 
loadings. For this factor, statements related to the environment loaded very high, while statements 
related to data sharing and storage were ranked very low. In total 13 participants load the highest 
in factor 3. Statements related to cost were ranked to the two extremes with cheap and free travel 
strongly increasing preference. Finally, in factor 4, seven participants had the highest loading. In 
this factor, we can see a variety of statements ranking very high and very low without clear 
preference of the type of statement. Table 1 presents the z-scores (i.e., standard deviations above 
the mean within the factor) of the loadings for each statement per factor.  
TABLE 1:  STATEMENTS AND THEIR STANDARDISED FACTOR LOADINGS. 
 
Discussion and Conclusion 
We identified four distinct consumer segments for MSPs on MaaS platforms. These segments differ 
in the service aspects that influence consumer preference. While one segment prefers convenience 
and a low price, another segment prioritises sustainability. We found that overall price, 
convenience and sustainability strongly influence consumer preference for mobility services on 
MaaS platforms while service aspects such personal space, contamination and data privacy have a 
lesser influence. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
956 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
This study contributes a better understanding of consumer segments in the MaaS context and 
identifies aspects of mobility services that influence consumer preference. The insights also 
contribute to MaaS in practice. Clearly, some MSPs are more relevant to specific consumer 
segments. Using these insights MSPs can gear their business models towards the most relevant 
consumer segment(s) and their preferences. Alternatively, MSPs can also alter or diversify their 
marketing messages or business models to appeal to different consumer segments. 
MaaS platforms are frequently presented as a solution to shift towards more sustainable transport 
systems. However, in practice this requires a fine balance between consumer preferences, business 
interests, and environmental sustainability. By redesigning their business models, MSPs can 
become more attractive to relevant consumer segments and replace less sustainable modes of 
transport.  
Keywords 
Digitalization, Shared Mobility, Sharing Economy, Segmentation, Urban Mobility. 
References 
Athanasopoulou, A., de Reuver, M., Nikou, S. & Bouwman, H. (2019) What technology enabled services 
impact business models in the automotive industry? An exploratory study. Futures;  109, 73-83. 
doi.org/10.1016/j.futures.2019.04.001 
Brown, S.R. (1980). Political subjectivity: Applications of Q methodology in political science. New Haven: Yale 
University Press. 
Brown, S. R. (1996). Q methodology and qualitative research. Qualitative Health Research, 6(4), 561–567. 
doi.org/10.1177/104973239600600408. 
Kroesen, M. (2013) Exploring people's viewpoints on air travel and climate change: understanding 
inconsistencies, 
Journal 
of 
Sustainable 
Tourism, 
21:2, 
271-290. 
doi.org/10.1080/09669582.2012.692686 
Poppelaars, F., Bakker, C. & Van Engelen, J. (2018) Does access trump ownership? Exploring consumer 
acceptance of access-based consumption in the case of smartphones. Sustainability, 10(7).  
doi.org/10.3390/su10072133 
Rahimi, A., Azimi, G. & Jin, X. (2020). Examining human attitudes toward shared mobility options and 
autonomous vehicles. Transportation research part F: traffic psychology and behaviour, 72, 133-154.  
doi.org/10.1016/j.trf.2020.05.001 
Sakai, K. (2019). MaaS trends and policy-level initiatives in the EU. IATSS Research, 43(4). 
doi.org/10.1016/j.iatssr.2019.11.001 
Tirachini, A., Chaniotakis, E., Abouelela, M. & Antoniou, C. 2020. The sustainability of shared mobility: Can a 
platform for shared rides reduce motorized traffic in cities?. Transportation Research Part C: 
Emerging Technologies, 117. doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2020.102707 
Tunn, V.S., Bocken, N.M., van den Hende, E.A. & Schoormans, J.P., 2021. Diffusion of access-based product-
service systems: Adoption barriers and how they are addressed in practice. PLATE Product Lifetimes 
And The Environment 2019–Conference Proceedings. NF Nissen and M. Jaeger-Erben (Eds.). TU 
Berlin University Press. 
Valenta, L. & Wigger, U. (1997). Q-methodology: Definition and application in health care informatics. Journal 
of 
the 
American 
Medical 
Informatics 
Association, 
4(6), 
501–510. 
doi.org/10.1136/jamia.1997.0040501 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
957 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Van Exel, J.V., & de Graaf, G.D. (2005). Q methodology: A sneak preview. 
Vij, A., Ryan, S., Sampson, S. & Harris, S. (2020). Consumer preferences for Mobility-as-a-Service (MaaS) in 
Australia. 
Transportation 
Research 
Part 
C: 
Emerging 
Technologies, 
117. 
doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2020.102699 
Utriainen, R. & Pöllänen, M. (2018). Review on mobility as a service in scientific publications. Research in 
Transportation Business & Management, 27, 15-23. doi.org/10.1016/j.rtbm.2018.10.005 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
958 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Barriers to urban mobility sharing in 
European cities: why people resist 
bike and e-scooter sharing systems 
 
Venere Stefania Sanna1 Anikó Bernát2*, Vera Lúcia Diogo3,  
Agnieszka Lukasiewicz4, João Filipe Teixeira5, Egle Vaiciukynaite6 
1Sapienza University of Rome, Italy; 2TÁRKI Social Research Institute, 
Hungary 3Polytechnic Institute of Porto, Portugal; 4The Road and 
Bridge Research Institute, Poland; 5University of Porto, Portugal; 
6Kaunas University of Technology, Lithuania  
*bernat@tarki.hu 
Abstract 
Over the past few years, urban shared micro mobility systems - such as bike and e-scooter sharing 
schemes - have been promoted in many European countries as means to foster a more just, 
sustainable, and healthier urban life. Accessing these systems might be more affordable for 
vulnerable and low-income social groups than other means of transportation, and therefore could 
foster social and labour market integration of groups such as youths and/or the unemployed, via 
affordable access to effective urban transportation. When the Covid-19 pandemic hit, emphasis on 
light and shared mobility systems was reinforced, and such schemes were promoted by several 
national and local governments as safer and feasible alternatives to public transportation and 
private cars. There is currently a scarcity of research on the use of these means of transportation 
during the Covid-19 period, but this article aims to address an even less examined research topic, 
namely the motivations of non-users. What are the resistance points from potential users who have 
access to these services but do not wish to reap their transport, environmental, and social benefits? 
The analysis provides results from a comparative and survey-based research carried out in 2021 in 
five European capital cities: Budapest, Lisbon, Rome, Vilnius, and Warsaw, and discloses the 
principal motivations of non-users of bike and e-scooter sharing systems before and during the 
pandemic period, when these means were strongly promoted for safety and health reasons. 
 
Keywords  
bike sharing, e-scooter sharing, European capitals, micro-mobility, Covid-19 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
959 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Introduction 
Light and shared urban micro mobility is one of the most obviously developing trends in 
transportation in Europe and beyond. It is driven by a diverse set of factors in response to changing 
conditions in urban development, such as the sustainable development of mobility towards low-
carbon transport, the elimination of traffic congestion, and comfort and convenience. This trend 
also leads to the transformation of urban mobility practices around shared transport, which 
requires adaptation of residents’ behaviour (Cohen, 2019). Travelers are motivated to choose 
modes of transport based on different inputs, rational or emotional, based either on observations 
or perceptions, often influenced by various cultural and social groups, and other individual factors, 
such as cost, time, comfort, convenience, safety, environmental concerns (Cairns et al. 2014; 
Cohen, 2019)  
Bike and electric scooter sharing schemes (hereafter BSSs and ESSs) play an increasingly important 
role in the growth of urban micro-mobility. The introduction of such solutions in urban areas is 
driven by the need to increase the efficiency of urban transport systems, and a desire to reduce the 
environmental impact of traditional modes of transport. Shared mobility can complement public 
transport, providing alternative modes of transport for the “first and last mile”, and reaching areas 
that are not well served by public transport. In some places BSSs and ESSs could even replace public 
transport, thus reducing CO2 emissions and, in the case of bicycles, also bringing additional health 
benefits (Crozet, Santos and Coldefy, 2019).  
These trends and drivers were undoubtedly accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic, which 
triggered a shift away from mass transit and towards individual shared solutions, with travellers 
choosing means of transport more compatible with social distancing. Many cities began to 
encourage cycling and walking by increasing cycle lanes, car-free zones, and wider pavements. In a 
survey of 106 European cities during the 2020 lockdown, Kraus and Koch (2020) reported that each 
city implemented an average of 11.5km of temporary cycle lanes, with each km resulting in a 0.6% 
increase in cycling.  
The choice of transport mode, along with motivations for using BSSs and ESSs, are a common field 
of interest of academia, policy makers, and urban developers. However the mindset of non-users 
is also an important source of information for decision-making about these systems. Inputs from 
non-users would be valuable to help identify barriers to BSSs and ESSs – especially due to the 
relative scarce research in this field (Fishman, 2016) – and could provide important data to 
understand their resistance, and what could make them change their minds.  
A lack of comparative research related to BSSs and ESSs non-users is especially true across urban 
contexts and different countries, and we intend to fill this gap with our comparative analysis 
between Budapest, Lisbon, Rome, Vilnius and Warsaw. In particular our research investigates the 
use of bike and e-scooter sharing before and during the pandemic. While this contribution discloses 
the major limitations and barriers to the use of these systems, important outputs of the 
comparative analysis have been published in Diogo et al. (2021), Sanna et al. (forthcoming 2022), 
and other areas of the analysis will be the subject of further contributions in the course of 
publication. The research project is part of the activities of the international research network Cost-
Action “From Sharing to Caring: Examining Socio-Technical Aspects of the Collaborative Economy”.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
960 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Literature review 
As a general premise for this section, it should be mentioned that the scientific literature concerning 
the main drivers for the use of light sharing mobility systems has extensively covered BSSs, while 
very little has been written about ESSs, a much more recent service.  
The convenience of bike sharing has been proven by several studies as the most important 
motivation for joining the service (Fishman et al., 2013; Ricci, 2015; Fishman, 2016). The proximity 
of bikes or sharing stations near the place of residence and frequent destinations such as the 
workplace seems to be vital in the decision to join bike sharing, as indicated by Raux, Zoubir and 
Geyik (2017) in their research into Vélo'v (Lyon’s BSS). Two studies from Montreal’s BIXI BSS further 
highlight the association with BSS use of bike proximity to origin and destination locations. In 
particular Fuller et al. (2011) estimated that 14% of residents living within 250 meters of a BSS 
station had used a shared bike, whereas only 6% had used BIXI when living further than 250 m of a 
BSS station; Bachand-Marleau, Lee and El-Geneidy (2012) estimated that the existence of a BIXI 
station within 500 meters of a respondent’s residence increased the probability of using a shared 
bike by more than 300%. Travel time reductions are also found as one of the main perceived 
benefits of using a BSS (Ricci, 2015). For example, surveys of London’s BSS users revealed that the 
main motivation to join the BSS was the system being faster than their previous transport mode 
(TfL, 2011). Furthermore, countrywide surveys of BSS users in the UK systematically revealed 
convenience and travel time savings to be the main reasons for joining the system, particularly 
among commuters (Bikeplus, 2017a, 2017b; Comouk, 2018). Joining and interacting with such a 
system is also strongly affected by convenience. Among the main barriers to use of a bike sharing 
in Brisbane (Australia) by identified Fishman, Washington and Haworth (2012), was the amount of 
time and effort needed to use the system, as well as the fact that the BSS was not available at night. 
Factors such as environment sustainability concerns and personal health are also drivers that to 
joining sharing systems (Fishman, 2014). For instance, national UK surveys about BSSs consistently 
show both health and environmental concerns as among the top reasons for users shifting to bike 
sharing, with environmental reasons becoming more and more important over time (Bikeplus, 
2017a, 2017b; Comouk, 2018).  
Kim et al. (2017) provide psychological insights on the relationship between environmental 
concerns and the potential to adopt bike sharing. By analysing psychological factors that might 
impact BSS usage rates, the authors asked residents of Suwon (South Korea) if they were willing to 
pay for the promotion of the city’s BSSs through taxes and were informed of the environmental and 
health benefits of the system. The research shows that the perception of the BSS’s value was 
directly influenced by the awareness of the BSSs environmental and health benefits.  
The affordability of BSSs is also often cited as a driving factor for users (TfL 2011; Ricci 2015; Fishman 
2016; Bikeplus 2017a, 2017b; Comouk 2018), as some offer monthly or annual passes to their users 
that lead to substantial cost savings (Shaheen, Guzman and Zhang 2010). Additionally, the pleasure 
of cycling is valued by BSS users (TfL 2011; Fishman et al., 2015; Chen 2016), which could lead to 
positive impacts on users’ subjective well-being (Ma et al. 2018). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
961 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Lastly, the Covid-19 pandemic introduced additional motivations for using light sharing mobility 
systems due to the infection fears and risks of using other modes of transport, particularly public 
transport (Sanna et al., forthcoming 2022). A recent study regarding the motivations for using BSSs 
during the pandemic found that BSSs users now value bike sharing to avoid public transportation 
and to maintain a social distance during their trips (Teixeira, Silva i Moura and Sá, 2021). 
Research methodology 
This contribution is based on the main outcomes of an online survey that aimed to reveal the driving 
factors and motivations of both BSS and ESS users and non-users, and to capture any changes 
induced by the pandemic in five European cities. In addition to outlining the socio-economic profile 
of the respondents, the survey the availability and potential accessibility of sharing services, 
transport habits before and during the pandemic, major motivations for using or not using the 
services, etc. The questionnaire was administered between April and June 2021, via social media 
(mainly neighbourhood, commuter, and urban life Facebook groups) and mailing lists. 
The survey had at least for four unique aspects. It: (i) compared the use of BSSs and ESSs 
simultaneously; (ii) focused on both users and non-users, (iii) covered five EU capital cities 
simultaneously, administered in local languages; (iv) covered both pre-pandemic and pandemic 
periods.  
996 people responded to the survey. After a process of data cleaning and validation, 797 
observations were included in the convenience sample for analysis as shown in Table 1. The highest 
number of observations were in Rome – about twice as many as the other cities. Gender 
distribution was almost equal in Warsaw, favoured the female gender in Rome and Vilnius, and was 
biased on the male side in Budapest. 
Table 1. Respondents per city (absolute values and percentage) and gender distribution 
(percentage)  
City 
Number of 
respondents 
Respondents 
(% tot) 
Female 
Male 
Other 
Total 
Budapest 
133 
16.69 
45.1 
54.1 
0.8 
100.0 
Lisbon 
129 
16.19 
40.3 
58.1 
1.6 
100.0 
Rome 
281 
35.26 
53.0 
46.6 
0.4 
100.0 
Warsaw 
128 
16.06 
48.4 
50.8 
0.8 
100.0 
Vilnius 
126 
15.81 
59.5 
40.5 
0.0 
100.0 
Total 
797 
100.00 
  
 
 
 
Source: elaboration of the authors  
The research deals with very different geographical contexts: the cities targeted are deeply 
dissimilar in terms of population, social-political and historical backgrounds, geographical features, 
urban transportation systems, policies, and traditions.  
Each of the analysed cities already operated pre-pandemic public and private bike and e-scooter 
sharing systems. In reaction to the pandemic, some of these cities adopted ad hoc urban policies 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
962 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
or interventions (e.g., fiscal) as discussed in Diogo et al. (2021) to foster the use of safer 
transportation modes  
 
Availability and barriers to the use of BSS and ESS 
services: a comparative analysis 
The questionnaire provides evidence that bike and e-scooter sharing services are available to the 
majority of respondents in each analysed city. Shared e-scooters seem to be marginally more 
available than shared bikes in each city except Warsaw.  
Figure 1. Availability of bike sharing systems in the studied cities 
 
Legend: Percentage of respondents with BSSs available near their area of residence, work/study zone or other frequent 
destinations (leisure, shopping, etc.).  
Source: elaboration of the authors  
 
61.9% of respondents can find shared bicycles in the area where they live, which increases to 72.1% 
in the area where they work/study, and to 73.5% in areas they visit for leisure, shopping, etc. Data 
are even few percentage points higher for ESSs.  
While there is a substantial perceived availability of light sharing mobility services, there is low 
uptake. An in-depth analysis of the periods of subscription (or non-subscription) to bike-sharing 
services revealed that the majority of respondents (61.10%) did not subscribe to the service while 
20.2% used them, but only before the start of the pandemic in March 2020, and then abandoned 
them. The remaining 13.55% of respondents used BSSs both before and during the pandemic, and 
a residual 5.14% subscribed to the service only “during the pandemic (after March 2020)”.  
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
Budapest
Lisbon
Rome
Vilnius
Warsaw
Area of residence
Work/study zone
Leisure/shopping

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
963 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Similar responses were given for ESSs, where a large proportion of respondents (72.65%) never 
subscribed to the service, while 14.43% used one before the pandemic (March 2020) and then 
abandoned it. The remaining 6.65% of respondents used e-scooter sharing both before and during 
the pandemic and 6.27% subscribed to the service only after the pandemic had started. 
Figure 2. Availability of e-scooter sharing systems in the studied cities 
 
Legend: Percentage of respondents with ESSs available near their area of residence, work/study zone or other frequent 
destinations (leisure, shopping, etc.).  
Source: elaboration of the authors  
 
Examining the motivations of the non-users it is interesting to determine why, despite the fact that 
the majority of respondents declared they could access ESSs and BSSs, they do not use them. It is 
interesting to note that motivations can mainly be attributed to external factors that are out of the 
control of the respondents, and mainly stem from infrastructural settings. As shown in figure 3, the 
main reasons are: (i) other modes of transportation are more convenient; (ii) safety concerns of 
riding in traffic (iii) bad conditions on the roads/streets; (iv) the lack of a bike network; (v) 
respondents’ preferred destinations are too far by bike or e-scooter.  
Other minor external factors that prevent adoption include landscape or poor weather conditions, 
which are also difficult to overcome, but there are other, less frequently mentioned barriers that 
might be eliminated by some adaptation implemented either by the user or the BSSs/ESSs provider, 
such as helmets, price, or the quality of the shared bikes or e-scooters (Figure 3). Covid-19 
transmission is not a major concern, with only 13% of the respondents mentioning it against BSSs, 
and 11% against ESSs. The same applies to other health issues, again one of the least mentioned 
barriers to shared bike and e-scooter use (11% and 13%). 
 
 
 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
Budapest
Lisbon
Rome
Vilnius
Warsaw
Area of residence
Work/study zone
Leisure/shopping

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
964 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
Figure 3. Reasons for not using bike or e-scooter sharing  
 
Reasons for not using BSS (N=415) and ESS (N=499) ranked according to respondents’ rating of agreement with a range 
of options. For an easier reading, only the combined percentage of the two highest ratings - strongly agree and agree - is 
shown. 
Source: elaboration of the authors  
 
The general ranking of the barriers to use BSSs or ESSs are very similar in the five cities, but with a 
few notable outliers based on contextual individuations: 
• 
In Budapest the insufficient quality of bikes was mentioned as the third most important 
barrier, at twice the share of the five-city average (55% in Budapest), however, the survey 
was carried out immediately before the change of the shared bikes of the main Budapest 
BSSs, MOL-Bubi, which was developed due to these quality concerns.  
• 
In Lisbon landscape conditions (hills) were mentioned more (50%) compared to the five-city 
average (35%), as well as issues in account creation (30% vs an average of 20%). 
• 
In Rome infrastructural issues such as poor road conditions and the lack of a bike lane 
network were mentioned above average (66% vs 50% on average and 64% vs 50% on 
average), as well as landscape conditions (48% vs 35% on average). 
13,3%
12,5%
11,3%
20,5%
28,4%
31,1%
34,5%
24,1%
27,2%
33,3%
41,7%
50,4%
49,4%
44,1%
63,9%
9,2%
10,6%
12,6%
15,6%
16,0%
24,8%
29,1%
34,5%
36,1%
39,3%
42,1%
48,7%
52,1%
58,1%
73,9%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90%100%
Too long to check the bikes/e-scooters in and out
COVID-19 transmission
Health issues
Limitations in account creation
The bikes/e-scooters are not good
Poor weather conditions
Landscape conditions (slopes)
Not enough cargo space
Too expensive
Lack of helmet
Destinations are too far
Lack of a bike network
Bad conditions on the roads/streets
Safety concerns riding in traffic
Other modes more convenient
ESS
BSS

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
965 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
• 
In Vilnius poor weather conditions were more of a barrier (mentioned by 43% vs 31% of the 
five-city average) as well as the quality of shared bikes (mentioned by 33% vs 28% on 
average), the time (too long) to check the bikes in and our (18% vs 13% on average). However, 
Vilnius respondents have much less frustrations regarding the safety concerns in traffic 
(mentioned by 18% vs 44% on average). 
• 
In Warsaw an excessive procedure to check bikes in and out was the greatest source of 
frustration (32% vs 13% on average). 
Conclusions 
Sustainable urban micro mobility modes, most notably bike and e-scooter sharing services, are on 
the rise in European cities, which is an increasingly popular topic for both academic and applied 
policy research. However, the focus often lies on the users of these schemes, while non-users and 
their reasons are often underrepresented. This contribution intended to examine this overlooked 
aspect to support both academic and policy research and urban mobility and transportation 
planning, with inputs on the barriers to a further increase in the use of BSSs and ESSs.  
The analysis revealed that the main reasons of non-users are exogenous factors over which users 
have no control. These are mainly: economic; infrastructural (such as bad road conditions) or the 
lack of a bike network; or a perception that destinations are too distant to be reached via BSS or 
ESS. Barriers over which users have more influence BSSs and ESSs are shown to be less important. 
This finding points out that the further development and spread of BSSs and ESSs in European cities 
primarily depends on the ability and promptness of city planners to improve the urban 
transportation network, and to rethink overall urban transportation policy. 
References  
Bachand-Marleau, J., Lee, B. H. Y. & El-Geneidy, A. M. (2012) Better Understanding of Factors Influencing 
Likelihood of Using Shared Bicycle Systems and Frequency of Use. Transportation Research Record: 
Journal of the Transportation Research Board, 2314(1), 66–71.  
Bikeplus (2017a) Public Bike Share Users Survey Results 2016. Leeds. 
Bikeplus (2017b) Public Bike Share Users Survey Results 2017. Leeds. 
Cairns, S., Harmer, C., Hopkins, J. & Skippon, S. (2014) Sociological perspectives on travel and mobilities: A 
review. Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice. 63 (1), 107–117.  
Chen, S. Y. (2016) Green helpfulness or fun? Influences of green perceived value on the green loyalty of users 
and non-users of public bikes. Transport Policy. 47, 149–159.  
Cohen, K. (2019) Human Behavior and New Mobility Trends in the United States, Europe, and China, Working 
Paper, No. 024.2019, Fondazione Eni Enrico Mattei (FEEM), Milano Available from: 
https://www.econstor.eu/bitstream/10419/211183/1/ndl2019-024.pdf. [Accessed: 3rd February 
2022].  
Comouk (2018) Bike Share Users Survey 2018. Leeds. 
Crozet, Y., Santos, G. & Coldefy, J. (2019) Shared Mobility, MaaS and the Regulatory Challenges of Urban 
Mobility. Centre on Regulation in Europe CERRE asbl. Available from: https://cerre.eu/wp-
content/uploads/2020/07/190827_CERRE_MaaS_FinalReport.pdf [Accessed: 3rd February 2022].  
Diogo, V., Sanna, V.S., Bernat, A., & Vaiciukynaite, E. (2021) In the scenario of sustainable mobility and 
pandemic emergency: experiences of bike and e-scooter sharing schemes in Budapest, Lisbon, Rome 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
966 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
and Vilnius. In: Teli, M. & Bassetti, C. (Eds) Becoming a Platform in Europe – On the Governance of 
the Collaborative Economy. Now Publishers, pp. 58–89.  
Fishman, E. (2014) Bikeshare: Barriers, Facilitators and Impacts on Car Use. Queensland University of 
Technology. Available from: https://eprints.qut.edu.au/78009/4/Elliot_Fishman_Thesis.pdf. 
Fishman, E. (2016) Bikeshare: A Review of Recent Literature. Transport Reviews. 36(1), 92–113.  
Fishman, E., Washington, S., Haworth, N. &Watson, A. (2015) Factors influencing bike share membership: An 
analysis of Melbourne and Brisbane. Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice. 71, 17–30.  
Fishman, E., Washington, S. & Haworth, N. (2012) Barriers and facilitators to public bicycle scheme use: A 
qualitative approach. Transportation Research Part F: Traffic Psychology and Behaviour. 15(6), 686–
698.  
Fishman, E., Washington, S. & Haworth, N. (2013) Bike Share: A Synthesis of the Literature.  Transport 
Reviews. 33(2), 148–165.  
Fuller, D. Gauvin, L., Kestens, Y., Daniel, M., Fournier, M., Morency, P. & Drouin, L. (2011) Use of a new public 
bicycle share program in Montreal, Canada.  American Journal of Preventive Medicine. 41(1), 80–83.  
Kim, J., Keechoo, C., Sukhee, K. & Fujii, S. (2017) How to promote sustainable public bike system from a 
psychological perspective? International Journal of Sustainable Transportation. 11(4), 272–281.  
Kraus, S. & Koch, N. (2020) Effect of pop-up bike lanes on cycling in European cities. Physics and Society. 
Available from: https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.05883 [Accessed: 3rd February 2022]. 
Ma, L., Zhang, X., Ding, X., & Wang, G.  (2018) Bike sharing and users’ subjective well-being: An empirical 
study in China. Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice. 118, 14–24. 
Raux, C., Zoubir, A. & Geyik, M. (2017) Who are bike sharing schemes members and do they travel differently? 
The case of Lyon’s “Velo’v” scheme. Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice. 106, 350–
363.  
Ricci, M. (2015) Bike sharing: A review of evidence on impacts and processes of implementation and 
operation. Research in Transportation Business and Management. 15, 28–38.  
Sanna, V.S., Bernat, A., Diogo, V., Lukasiewicz, A., Teixeira, J., & Vaiciukynaite, E. (forthcoming 2022) Post-
pandemic city and light sharing mobility: a comparative analysis  of Budapest, Lisbon, Rome, Warsaw 
and Vilnius. In: Catene Chains. XI Giornata di studi “Oltre la globalizzazione”, Memorie Geografiche 
della Società di Studi Geografici, Società di Studi Geografici, Firenze. 
Shaheen, S., Guzman, S. & Zhang, H. (2010) Bikesharing in Europe, the Americas, and Asia.  Transportation 
Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board. 2143(1), 159–167.  
Teixeira, J. F., Silva, C. & Moura & Sá, F. (2021) The motivations for using bike sharing during the COVID-19 
pandemic: Insights from Lisbon. Transportation Research Part F: Traffic Psychology and Behaviour. 
82(July), 378–399.  
TfL (2011) Barclays Cycle Hire customer satisfaction and usage – wave 2. Available from: 
https://content.tfl.gov.uk/bch-members-q3-2014-15.pdf [Accessed: 3rd February 2022]. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
967 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Does sustainability affect consumer 
behavior in sharing economy? 
Insights from a literature review 
Cecilia Grieco, Alberto Mattiacci, Fabiola Sfodera, Carlotta 
Monno1 
1Sapienza University of Rome 
*cecilia.grieco@uniroma1.it 
Extended abstract  
Background and purpose. The sharing economy takes off as an economic model based on 
cooperation, where exchanges happen among customers populating both the demand and the 
offer sides. Despite the existence of different perspectives, scholars do agree on considering the 
sharing economy as a system of exchanges among communities of peers to access services and 
goods through the use of digital platforms (Botsman and Rogers, 2011, Hamari et al., 2015; Rong et 
al., 2021). 
This innovative paradigm is not only a different way to consume goods or services, but it represents 
a new lifestyle with altruistic values and social and environmental sustainability being the main 
drivers. As a peer-to-peer system, the relational aspect plays a key role and the mutual trust among 
customers has to be ensured as participants in the exchanges need to be reassured about the 
potential risks that might arise from the counterpart. 
The short paper presented is a part of a wider research project aimed at systematizing the existing 
literature about consumer behaviour in sharing economy through a systematic literature review. 
From this background, the role of sustainability along the phases of the purchasing funnel has been 
explored to gauge its impact in orienting each of them. 
The purchasing funnel concept refers to the steps consumers made in the consumption process, 
and it sums up all the passages from the identification of the need to the expression of the final 
(dis)satisfaction. From a theoretical perspective it has been widely addressed from scholars and 
practitioners. Among the existing contributions, Kotler (2017) defines the 5As model: aware, 
appeal, ask, act and advocate. In the aware phase consumers acquire knowledge about the product 
or the brand thanks to the marketing initiatives or the word-of-mouth. In the appeal phase 
consumers evaluate whether the product would be a possible solution for their needs. In the ask 
phase consumers are prone to the product and actively involved in finding the proper information 
about it to understand its potential benefits and risks. In the act phase consumers actually buy the 
product. In the advocate phase consumers are able to evaluate whether their expectations have 
been met and, consistently, their intention to buy the product again and recommend it to others. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
968 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The decision to explore this process in the sharing economy and to propose a literature review 
about it, arises from the growing number of contributions about sharing customers on the one 
hand, and the lack of a systematization of those on the other. Existing reviews are in fact focused 
on the general phenomenon of the sharing economy. 
As for the second purpose, the relation between sharing economy and sustainability has been 
largely debated. Several authors have stressed that the sharing economy can be considered 
sustainable to all effect as it seeks both environmentally and socio-ethically beneficial solutions 
(Botsman and Rogers, 2011; Vezzoli et al., 2015), it is less resource intensive than the traditional 
way to access goods and services (Schor, 2014) and it promotes a more frugal approach to living 
that is opposite to materialism (Prethero et al., 2011). A totally different view comes from those 
who do not share the same utopian view of the sharing economy. Schor (2014) for example 
underlined that the reduction of carbon emission because of the sharing economy is a widespread 
belief yet no studies exist about its real impact. Other scholars also affirmed that sharing does not 
necessarily mean less consumption (Parguel et al., 2017). Despite this divergence, while studies 
about sharing consumer often refer to sustainability as having an impact on consumer behaviour, 
the phases on which it does the most have not been identified yet. 
Method. In order to achieve the aforementioned purpose, a systematic literature review has been 
developed (Tranfield et al., 2003). The search has been performed on Ebsco as the main dataset, 
using “sharing economy” AND “consumer behaviour” (together with their more frequent 
synonymous) as keywords. The output is made of 196 articles. Collected articles were read in their 
title, keywords and abstract. This step led to discard 122 articles because of availability or language 
constraints or as not consistent with the purpose of the research. The remaining 74 have been 
further carefully read by two researchers in their full text. This step led to the further elimination 
of 6 papers that were not consistent with the purpose of the research. The remained 68 articles 
were considered as the basis of the analysis. A second full text reading allowed the researchers to 
fill an excel file with all the details about the publications and to classify the articles according to 
the phases of the funnel: aware, appeal, ask, act and advocate. 
Findings. At a general level it emerges that contributions about consumer behaviour in sharing 
economy date back to 2015. From that year on, the number of articles rises exponentially, in 
particular between 2019 and 2020. 
Figure 1: The growth of articles over the years (sharing economy VS sharing economy & consumer 
behaviour) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
969 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Source: Authors’ elaboration 
As for the geographical spread of the analysed research, basing on the affiliation of the first author, 
28 countries emerged. Most of the authors come from China (n. 9), USA (n. 9), Germany (n. 7), Spain 
and Taiwan (n. 4). Those studies that address a specific industry of the sharing economy focus on 
hospitality (30.9%), mobility (22%) and fashion industry (11.8%). The 68 examined articles come 
from 64 different journals, where the Journal of Business Research (n. 5) and the Journal of 
Consumer Marketing (n. 4) are predominant. 
Figure 2 shows a word cloud made by the keywords of the 68 analysed articles. 
Figure 2: Keywords word cloud 
 
Source: Authors’elaboration 
A final consideration concerns the adopted methodology, where empirical studies (91%) 
outnumber the theoretical ones (8.8%). 
As for the phases of the purchasing funnel, the first thing that is worth to be noted is that no articles 
have been found for the first phase of the process. The 68 analysed articles have then been grouped 
into the remaining categories to analyse the emerging trends. The concept of sustainability has 
been detected in three out of four, and in particular in the appeal, act and advocate phase. This 
means that, according to the analysed articles, sharing consumers deal with sustainability when 
they have to decide whether a sharing platform would be a good option for them, when they 
finalize their purchase, and in the post-purchase phase to define their level of satisfaction. 
Articles falling within the appeal phase are those that investigate the drivers of participation in the 
sharing economy. This is the phase in which sustainability emerges the most and under different 
perspectives. Bhalla (2021) and Becker-Leifhold (2018) state that environmental concerns and the 
benefits of a responsible consumption are not strong enough to be considered as a motivating 
element. Similarly, Puiu (2020) claims that despite the positive impact sustainability has in catching 
the interest of people, it does not have an equally strength in orienting their actual behavior. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
970 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Figure 3: The growth of articles over the years (sorted by purchasing funnel phase) 
Source: Authors’ elaboration 
Matharu et al. (2020) recall the LOHAS (Lifestyles Of Health And Sustainability) concept, stating that 
sustainability has an impact in orienting those individuals with a positive attitude towards 
sustainable consumption, that can draw inspiration from their social environment, and that 
perceive the consumption as an easy process. 
A summing up point of view comes from Becker-Leifhold (2018): in his view it is not possible to have 
“one size fits all” considerations about the driver of the sharing economy, as it all depends on the 
kind of good or service and the kind of consumer involved. According to the author, considerations 
about sustainability have an impact in orienting the purchasing process of those products that are 
not considered as significative in defining the consumer’s self (e.g., the car for young consumers). 
Otherwise, sustainability has no impact when the product is perceived as essential in defining the 
consumer (e.g., clothes). In this case, elements such as the influence of the peers or the need to 
express a specific social status have the main impact in driving the process. 
Sustainability emerges again in the articles falling into the act phase of the purchasing process. 
Scholars who cover this aspect stress the indirect relation between environmental and economic 
benefits. For example, Khan et al. (2019) suggest that individuals who care about the environmental 
protection turn to the sharing economy when they perceive its economic advantages and there is 
the possibility to rely on apps and websites.  
Caspersen et al. (2021) focus the attention of the shipping aspect. What emerges in their article is 
that some consumers are willing to accept longer delivery times if it ensures a lower transport 
pollution. Moreover, a longer delivery time usually goes along with a lower delivery cost or even 
with free shipping. A controversial aspect lies in the characteristics of the group of users that 
emerges as more prone to this kind of initiatives. In Caspersen’s analysis this group is made by the 
over forty, while previous literature identifies in the youngest the target that cares the most about 
the environment. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
971 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Finally, in the advocate phase, sustainability is referred to only in one article from Arteaga-Sánchez 
(2020). The author pinpoints at how sharing consumers feel that their purchasing processes can 
generate environmental benefits, and that this thought has a positive impact on their satisfaction 
and their intention to continue sharing. 
Conclusion. This extended abstract sums up the main findings of a literature review about 
consumer behaviour in the sharing economy, where the role of sustainability has been identified 
and analysed along the phases of the purchasing funnel. What emerged from the analysed 
contributions is that the impact of sustainability on the consumer behaviour in the sharing economy 
mostly concerns the appeal, act and advocate phases. The achieved results offer implications at 
both academic and managerial levels. As for the first one, the output of the literature review 
provides a systematization of the contributions about consumers in the sharing economy, filling a 
gap that emerged in the extant literature. Also, the role of sustainability has been detected in three 
out of the five phases of the purchasing funnel (appeal, act and advocate). This result is interesting 
from an academic perspective as it adds on the discourse about between sharing economy and 
sustainability, offering greater insight about their connection in the consumer behaviour 
background. It can also be of interest for managers and practitioners from the sharing economy as 
they can increase their knowledge about their consumers, finetuning their strategies to drive them 
through the purchasing funnel. 
Keywords  
Sharing economy, Consumer behavior, Sustainability, Literature review 
References  
Arteaga-Sánchez, R., Belda-Ruiz, M., Ros-Galvez, A., & Rosa-Garcia, A. (2020). Why continue sharing: 
Determinants of behavior in ridesharing services. International Journal of Market Research, 62(6), 
725-742. 
Becker-Leifhold, C. V. (2018). The role of values in collaborative fashion consumption-A critical investigation 
through the lenses of the theory of planned behavior. Journal of Cleaner Production, 199, 781-791. 
Bhalla, S. (2021). Testing the motivations and constraints of collaborative consumption: An empirical analysis 
of disruptive innovative business model. FIIB Business Review, 10(2), 146-157.  
Botsman R. & Rogers R. (2011). What's Mine Is Yours: How Collaborative Consumption Is Changing the Way 
We Live, Collins, London 
Caspersen, E., & Navrud, S. (2021). The sharing economy and consumer preferences for environmentally 
sustainable last mile deliveries. Transportation Research Part D: Transport and Environment, 95, 
102863. 
Hamari, J., Sjöklint, M., & Ukkonen, A. (2016). The sharing economy: Why people participate in collaborative 
consumption. Journal of the association for information science and technology, 67(9), 2047-2059. 
Khan, J., & Rundle‐Thiele, S. (2019). Factors explaining shared clothes consumption in China: Individual 
benefit or planet concern?. International Journal of Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Marketing, 24(4) 
Kotler, P. (2017) Marketing 4.0: Dal tradizionale al digitale. Italia: Hoepli. 
Matharu, M., Jain, R., & Kamboj, S. (2020). Understanding the impact of lifestyle on sustainable consumption 
behavior: a sharing economy perspective. Management of environmental quality: An international 
Journal.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
972 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Parguel, B., Lunardo, R., & Benoit-Moreau, F. (2017). Sustainability of the sharing economy in question: When 
second-hand peer-to-peer platforms stimulate indulgent consumption. Technological Forecasting 
and Social Change, 125, 48-57. 
Prothero, A., Dobscha, S., Freund, J., Kilbourne, W. E., Luchs, M. G., Ozanne, L. K., & Thøgersen, J. (2011). 
Sustainable consumption: Opportunities for consumer research and public policy. Journal of Public 
Policy & Marketing, 30(1), 31-38. 
Puiu, A. I. (2020). Motivations of Young Consumers to Participate to Collaborative Consumption. Journal of 
Social and Economic Statistics, 9(2), 43-55. 
Rong, K., Sun, H., Li, D., & Zhou, D. (2021). Matching as Service Provision of Sharing Economy Platforms: An 
Information Processing Perspective. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 171, 120901. 
Schor, J. (2016). Debating the sharing economy. Journal of self-governance and management economics, 4(3), 
7-22. 
Tranfield, D., Denyer, D., & Smart, P. (2003). Towards a methodology for developing evidence‐informed 
management knowledge by means of systematic review. British journal of management, 14(3), 207-
222. 
Vezzoli, C., Ceschin, F., Diehl, J. C., & Kohtala, C. (2015). New design challenges to widely implement 
‘Sustainable Product–Service Systems’. Journal of Cleaner Production, 97, 1-12. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
973 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Food sharing platforms: unlocking 
opportunities for digital impact 
reporting 
 
Chiara Ottolenghi1, Venere S. Sanna2, Laura Michelini 3  
1LUMSA University; 2 Sapienza University of Rome; 3LUMSA 
University   
*c.ottolenghi@lumsa.it  
Extended abstract 
Food waste prevention and reduction is considered one of the main challenges of our time. 
According to the UN Environment Programme, in 2019 about 931 million tonnes of food waste was 
generated, 61 per cent of which came from households, 26 per cent from food service and 13 per 
cent from retail (UNEP, 2021). In this scenario, food sharing and redistribution business models 
aiming at the re-use of surplus food for human consumption may represent an impactful tool to 
address this issue.  
Food sharing platforms have recently raised increasing scholarly attention because of their ability 
to leverage the digital technologies to connect suppliers and consumers of edible food waste while 
having social and environmental impacts related to the reduction of waste (Michelini et al., 2018). 
Prominent examples of food sharing platforms are Too Good to Go founded in 2015 in Denmark 
and operative in almost all major European cities, and Olio started in the UK in 2015 and currently 
active in 49 countries. 
Generally, food sharing platforms involve three main different categories of actors: (i) peers (or 
providers) who share exceeded or not saleable (e.g., ugly food) food; (ii) users (private users or non-
profit organizations); and (iii) third part as local institutions that act as track donations and apply a 
tax deduction.  
Due to the multitude of stakeholders potentially involved and to the different types of business 
models, the positive impact of these platforms is not limited to the food waste reduction but 
encompasses different areas that are worthy of investigation such as poverty and social inclusion 
(Michelini et al., 2020). Consequently, there is a pressing need to explore the impact beyond the 
material waste reduction and to understand how potential social, economic, environmental, and 
political areas of impact are addressed (measured, communicated, etc.) by different platforms.  
Considerable effort has been paid in the literature to identify feasible indicators and measures 
shared by the research community and provide easy-to-use frameworks to assess and report the 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
974 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
wider impact of food sharing (Mackenzie and Davies, 2019). However, the effective implementation 
of shared measurement models is still a challenge, and little is known on the extent to which these 
impacts are reported to the stakeholders by the food-sharing platforms.  
Building on these premises, the purpose of this research is to identify whether and how the different 
dimensions of impact are measured and reported by food sharing platforms, and to point out some 
main pitfalls. Specifically, the study aims to answer the following research questions:  
− 
How food sharing platforms report their potential social, economic, environmental and 
political impacts? 
− 
Are there any differences among food sharing platforms business models?  
− 
What is the relationship between the platform performance on the different areas of 
impact, and the popularity that each individual platform has on the web? 
− 
What are the main pitfalls / criticalities which emerge in the impact reporting? 
For every type of impact, we then reflect both on the potential benefits and the main pitfalls face 
in the impact assessment reporting, contributing to the sharing economy literature through an 
advancing of the understanding about the main strategy path to enhance the impact assessment 
and reporting.   
Drawing on the existing literature (Sanna and Michelini 2021; Michelini et al., 2020; Mackenzie and 
Davies, 2019) we developed a framework composed by four areas of impact - economic, 
environmental, social, and political. Considering a food sharing platform as the “unit of analysis”, 
we then devised a set of indicators aimed at measuring the potential positive and negative impacts 
(Table 1).  
Area of impact 
Indicator 
Description of the indicator  
Social 
Social bonding  
Strengthening social interaction/networking between 
members - trust) 
Quality of life / well-being  
To improve quality of life, to promote leisure and/or 
health of P/U. 
Environmental 
Sustainable 
food value chain 
Reduction of saleable and unsaleable food wasted 
CO2 emissions saved 
Green attitude 
and behaviour 
Activities, articles, events aiming to enhance green 
consumer attitude 
Economic 
Opportunities for providers 
Create new economic opportunities for providers, 
and growth of new economic sectors (e.g. secondary 
market supporting the CSE ecosystem). 
Ecosystem 
To improve the self-sufficiency of the local community 
(e.g. local money is spent locally/off-the-grid/self-
organization). Waste tax reduction, Reduction of 
bureaucracy  
Political 
Political empowerment 
Political empowerment and participation of P/U, 
including in decision-making processes. 
Political mobilization 
Political mobilization and increased demand for 
political change. 
This involves P/U organising with a common purpose 
or common understanding to achieve collective goals, 
social mobilisation, building alliances and coalitions. 
Table 1. Areas of impact and selected indicators for the assessment 
In order to give an answer to our research questions we carried out a two-steps analysis 
(quantitative and qualitative analysis) on a sample of 45 food sharing platforms active worldwide. 
In order to critically assess and elaborate a cluster analysis of food-sharing platforms, we built a 
comprehensive database in which a number of variables have been collected and categorised (e.g. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
975 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
country of origin; foundation year; business type e.g. for-profit or non-profit organizations; revenue 
model; marketplace; ecc.). 
Based on the aforementioned impact assessment theoretical framework (Table 1), the selected 
platforms have been analysed (this means that every web page of the platforms was examined), 
and each individual indicator has been assigned a performance value ranging from 1 to 5 (where 1 
represent a bad performance and 5 a top performance). In addition, in order to devise a Social 
Media Popularity Index, the amount of social media followers for three major social networks 
(Facebook, LinkedIn and Instagram) have been collected and incorporated in the analysis. 
This comparative assessment of food sharing platforms shows to what extent social, economic, 
environmental and political impacts have been addressed by the selected selection of sharing 
platforms. Using illustrative cases, we explore how these platforms tend to report their impacts. 
Finally, in order to reflect on the main drawbacks/pitfalls and to suggest future implementation 
trajectories, we propose possible and transferable examples of impact assessment reporting 
strategies which have already been implemented by existing platforms.  
Keywords  
Food sharing platforms, impact reporting, food waste 
References  
Mackenzie, S. G., & Davies, A. R. (2019). SHARE IT: Co-designing a sustainability impact assessment framework 
for urban food sharing initiatives. Environmental impact assessment review, 79, 106300. 
Michelini, L., Grieco, C., Ciulli, F., & Di Leo, A. (2020). Uncovering the impact of food sharing platform business 
models: a theory of change approach. British Food Journal.  
Michelini, L., Principato, L. and Iasevoli, G. (2018). Understanding food sharing models to tackle sustainability 
challenges. Ecological Economics, Vol. 145, March, pp. 205-217. 
Sanna, V. S., Michelini, L., Baltova, S., Efthymiadoy, F., Frankel, C., Halvorsen, T., ... & Valerio, S. (2020). White 
paper 
on 
Impact 
Methods. Available 
at:[left 
angle 
bracket] 
http://sharingandcaring. 
eu/sites/default/files/files/WhitePapersDeliverables D, 3. 
UNEP, D. (2021). Partnership (United Nations Environment Programme); 2015. Reducing Consumer Food 
Waste Using Green and Digital Technologies. Copenhagen and Nairobi. Copyright. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
976 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 3.5 - Responsible and sustainable 
production and consumption: the reduction 
of food loss and waste through new 
business models and circular economy 
Track chairs: Ludovica Principato (Roma Tre 
University), Luca Secondi (University of Tuscia) 
 
Within the international SDG framework, the specific target 12.3 foresees “by 2030 to halve 
per capita global food waste at retail and consumer levels and to reduce food losses along 
production and supply chains, including post-harvest losses”. However, advances and the 
effective achievement of this objective, which can bring economic and environmental 
benefits to territorial systems at different levels, require a rethinking of production 
strategies by businesses as well as consumption habits both at home and out-of-home.  
This track aims both at exploring new sustainable and circular business models that allow 
for the reduction-recovery and reuse of losses and waste generated throughout the 
production process, and at analysing whether and to what extent encouraging a change in 
consumer behaviour can have an effect on a smoother transition to new circular and 
sustainable production models. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
977 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Investigating the role of government 
incentives/subsidies in 
environmental transparency of 
corporations 
 
Nader Azad* 
Faculty of Business and Information Technology, Ontario Tech 
University 
*nader.azad@ontariotechu.ca 
Extended abstract 
One of the most important social aspects of sustainability is transparency. It is explained as 
clarifying the external influence of all actions of a corporation on the environment, human being 
and so on which should be obvious in a report, referred to as Environmental Disclosure Report. 
Transparency has a significant impact on both sustainability of the green products and the 
consumers’ behavior. It can help to increase the consumers’ satisfaction of the green product. 
Canadian corporation such as Magna and Power Corporation of Canada have recently published 
their environmental actions and the performance of the different indicators through the reports, 
referred to as Sustainability Report. Although the government of Canada has granted $915 million 
to motivate the corporations to become more transparent between 1983 and 2015, there is still an 
ongoing challenge regarding this aspect of the sustainability in the environmental actions of the 
Canadian corporations and the government. For example, the report from Overseas Development 
Institute in 2018 shows that Canada ranked 6th amongst the G7 nations in environmental 
transparency.  
Due to the urgency of environmental issues, world governments and industry leaders have defined 
their roles to address environmental issues, via a mutually developed framework, referred to as 
Sustainable Development. Sustainable Development (SD) is defined as “a development that fulfills 
the requirements of the present without jeopardizing the capability of next generations to meet 
their own needs” (Brundtland et al., 1987). However, the requirements of corporations (financial) 
and citizens (social) should be considered as well as the environmental concerns in order to 
successfully apply SD. As a result, corporations have established the triple-bottom-line (TBL) 
framework, proposed by Elkington (1999), to examine essential considerations of the economy, 
environment and the society. Even though the definition of TBL requires all three concerns 
simultaneously, most of the studies on the sustainability development in the operations 
management literature have focused only on the environmental and financial aspects. In this 
research, we contribute to the operations management literature on sustainability development 
by focusing on all three aspects of the TBL in the corporations’ decision-making process. Thus, this 
interdisciplinary research answers the question of how decision makers such as government can 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
978 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
play a fundamental role in helping corporations become more transparent as well as 
environmentally and socially sustainable while complying with investors’ financial expectations. 
There are several responsibilities for corporations to consider the social concerns in TBL, referred 
to as corporate social responsibility (CSR). Bowen (1953) defined CSR as the moral and legal 
operating constrains which corporations should consider in their decision-making process in line 
with societal values and objectives.  An important aspect of CSR is transparency, defined as the 
external impact of a corporation’s actions which is available and clear in its public report (Crowther 
and Martinez, 2004).  As corporations disclose more information regarding the impact of their 
actions on the environment, the consumers can distinguish products that are ecologically friendly 
to those that are not and therefore, corporations might charge more for greener products as the 
consumers would be willing to pay more to purchase them (Bemporad and Baranowski, 2007).  
Multiple studies have shown that the government could help corporations improve sustainability 
through transparency development. The government can offer subsidy/taxes to incentivize 
corporations for transparency development and penalize for unaccountability. As corporations 
disclose more information regarding the impact of their actions on the environment, the consumers 
can distinguish products that are ecologically friendly to those that are not and therefore, 
corporations might charge more for greener products as the consumers would be willing to pay 
more to purchase them (Egels-Zandén et al., 2015). On the other hand, the corporations incur lots 
of expenses to improve transparency duo to certifications, experiments and laboratory 
infrastructures. Also, reporting all the environmental activities and performance might not have a 
positive impact on the consumers' behavior. Therefore, the corporations need to decide the 
amount and the type of the environmental information which should be divulged in their reports.  
Given the significance of transparency in the sustainability and the ongoing challenge of this aspect, 
this research study investigates three important questions to evaluate the feasibility of 
government-industry collaboration to develop transparency in green supply chains.  
First, which types of government subsidies and controlling mechanism would motivate the 
corporations to become more transparent? To answer this question, we investigate thoroughly the 
intersection of sustainability development, transparency and green supply chain management 
literature and also prepare a research questionnaire which were distributed to the stakeholder of 
the forty Canadian manufacturing companies. The responses to the research questions were 
analyzed using IBM SPSS Statistics.  We also undertake a content analysis of the responses. The 
analyses suggested three important incentivizing subsidies offered by government including as: (i) 
subsidy on the retail price of the green products, (ii) subsidy on the environmental and transparency 
costs incurred by the corporations, and (iii) subsidy on the production cost of the green products. 
On the other hand, controlling mechanism including as environmental taxation is suggested when 
the corporations do not meet an acceptable level of transparency.  
Second, how much environmental disclosure, referred to as environmental disclosure level, and 
which part of environmental information, referred to as environmental disclosure quality, should 
be declared by corporations in their reports? Based on the suggested government’s policies, we 
use a game model to formulate the collaboration between the government as the leader and the 
supply chain (or corporation) as the follower to improve the transparency in the environmental 
disclosure report. We consider two types of available information: information about eco-friendly 
and non-eco-friendly performances, referred to as positive and negative information, respectively. 
Based on the subsidy/taxes established by the government, the supply chain decides the fraction 
of positive and negative environmental information declared in the report. To formulate the 
transparency cost in the supply chain, we apply the investment cost functions in the Operations 
Management and Marketing literature that have been used to model the social and environmental 
costs such as CSR and sustainability efforts (e.g., Ma et al. 2017 and Xu et al. 2017).  We assume 
that the transparency cost is a quadratic function of the positive and negative information. To 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
979 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
formulate the impact of the transparency decisions of the supply chain on the consumers’ behavior, 
we develop a demand function which is dependent on the transparency decisions. To do so, we 
develop a factor in the demand function, referred to as transparency factor and the product's value 
for the consumers changes based on their observation of transparency as well as the other factors 
such as the retail price. We conclude that offering both positive and negative disclosure subsidy 
benefits both government and corporations compared to the case that the government does not 
intervene and offer any subsidy. 
Third, what is the impact of each investigated subsidy/taxes on the policies which are important to 
corporations and the government such as sustainability development, social welfare and maximal 
financial efficiency? Based on the developed model, we analytically derive the best mechanism 
(subsidy/tax) to develop each mentioned policy. The results can be used by the associated 
governmental agencies and the industry to plan for the development of the environmental 
transparency as well as the important objectives of the sustainability. 
Keywords  
Sustainability; environmental disclosure; government intervention; environmental subsidy; 
responsible production. 
 
References  
Bemporad, R., Baranowski, M., 2007. Conscious consumers are changing the rules of marketing. Are you 
ready? Highlights from the BBMG Conscious Consumer Report. 
Bowen, H.R., 1953. Social responsibilities of the businessman. Harper & Row. New York. 
Brundtland, G., Khalid, M., Agnelli, S., Al-Athel, S., Chidzero, B., Fadika, L., Hauff, V., Lang, I., Shijun, M., de 
Botero, M.M., 1987. Our common future (\'brundtland report\'). 
Crowther, D., Martinez, E.O., 2004. Corporate social responsibility: History and principles. Social responsibility 
world, 102-107. 
Egels-Zandén, N., Hulthén, K., Wulff, G., 2015. Trade-offs in supply chain transparency: The case of Nudie 
Jeans Co. Journal of Cleaner Production 107, 95-104. 
Elkington, J., Rowlands, I.H., 1999. Cannibals with forks: the triple bottom line of 21st century business. 
Alternatives Journal 25(4), 42. 
Ma, P., Shang, J., Wang, H., 2017 Enhancing corporate social responsibility: Contract design under information 
asymmetry. Omega 67:19-30. 
Xu, X., Xiao, G., Gursoy, D., 2017. Maximizing prots through optimal pricing and sustainability strategies: A 
joint optimization approach. Journal of Hospitality Marketing & Management 26(4), 395-415. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
980 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Sustainable and circular business 
models for fruit and vegetable waste 
and by-product valorisation 
 
Mechthild Donner1, *, Hugo de Vries2 
1INRAE – French National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and 
Environment, UMR MOISA, Montpellier, France; 2INRAE – French 
National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and Environment, 
UMR IATE, Montpellier, France 
*mechthild.donner@inrae.fr 
Acknowledgement: This work has been funded by ARIMNet2 (ERA-NET grant no. 618127). 
Extended abstract 
One of the world’s agrifood system challenges is the prevention of waste (Thyberg & Tonjes, 2016). 
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO, 2011) estimates that one-third 
of all food produced in the world is lost or wasted. Food is wasted all along the supply chain, in 
Europe mostly at the consumption stage (FUSIONS, 2016), but for some food groups also 
substantially in primary production, storage and transport (especially, fruits, vegetables) or 
processing and manufacturing (mainly fish, oil crops) stages (Caldeira et al., 2019). The fruit and 
vegetable sector is particularly concerned because these crops are highly perishable and thus 
susceptible to rapid quality decay. Also, they contain inedible parts that are always removed before 
consumption; for households, the weight of fruits and vegetables is around one-third of the total 
purchases (de Laurentiis et al., 2018).  
While scientific research on food waste has until now largely focused on the prevention and 
reduction of waste, often from a (consumer) behavioural perspective, as well as on its valorisation 
via biotechnological processes (Morone et al., 2019), the role of business models has rather been 
neglected. Therefore, the research objective was to review and get insights into new business 
models contributing to a more sustainable and circular bioeconomy (De Vries et al., 2021) by 
creating value out of fruit and vegetable losses, waste and by-products. 
Data was collected via an extensive online search and a review of company websites, presentations 
and reports, online articles, and research project reports dedicated to fruit and vegetable waste. 
The online search was done via google, using the following keywords: ‘fruit losses’, ‘fruit waste’, 
‘vegetable losses’, ‘vegetable waste’, ‘fruit waste business’, ‘vegetable waste business’, ‘fruit waste 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
981 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
valorisation’, and ‘vegetable waste valorisation’. In total, 47 initiatives of circular business models 
targeting fruit and vegetable waste and by-product valorisation were analysed via a qualitative 
thematic analysis. The different data sources were coded for each initiative regarding its general 
type of business model, geographical location (country), business drivers, business model 
components, and economic, social and/or environmental impact. 
Different types of business models were identified. According to their core waste management 
strategy, most of the businesses (36 out of the 47 cases) can be classified as upcycling 
entrepreneurs. They make use of fruit and vegetable losses, waste and/or by-products by 
converting low-value into higher-value products, materials or ingredients for various food and non-
food applications. Another type are service companies, including either waste collection and 
recycling, or technological services. They offer various solutions such as applications for food waste 
tracking, redistribution services, or finding alternative markets for discarded fruits and/or 
vegetables. Mixed types were also found, combining services and products via different collecting, 
donating, selling, reusing or upcycling activities. The overwhelming part of the businesses are 
private companies, but also public organisations, public-private partnerships and joint initiatives 
between the private sector and research institutes exist. Moreover, the majority of enterprises 
have started their activities recently, with many start-ups in the past 5-10 years. Concerning the 
country of origin, 26 out of the 47 businesses are settled within the EU, 10 are in the United States, 
6 in Asia, 3 in Africa, and 2 in Mexico. It should be noted that in developing countries, usage of 
losses and waste are taken care of by Partnerships of e.g. the FAO with regional and local 
communities.  
Most of the initiatives are driven by the immediate concern about the food waste problem, whose 
valorisation is then positively related to opportunities for implementing sustainability and 
circularity principles, from an economic (business opportunity, increase of farmers’ incomes), 
environmental (reuse, recycle or recover nutrients, water and energy), and/or social (creation of 
jobs, nutrition security) perspective. Concerning the strategies for new value propositions, results 
show that numerous valorisation paths exist, with the aim to keep or create the highest possible 
value, either by redistributing discarded ugly fruits or vegetables, or by upcycling waste and by-
products into cosmetics or new food (ingredients) and beverages, or into biomaterials for diverse 
uses such as packaging, textiles, leather, automotive or design products. Only waste or by-products 
that are or have become inedible and fully un-exploitable in higher value segments are recycled or 
recovered for bio-fertilizers or bioenergy use.  
The main insights from the business model canvas analysis for fruit and vegetable waste and by-
product valorisation are listed in table 1 below. The central value proposition constitutes the main 
products and/or services offered by a company to its customers or consumers, providing bio-based, 
eco-innovative, and/or healthy solutions and benefits. Most of the initiatives are converting fruits 
or vegetable waste into new food, feed or beverages or ingredients such as juices, dried chips, 
soups, sauces or condiments (22 cases in total). This is followed by conversion into biomaterials for 
diverse uses such as packaging, textiles, leather, automotive or design products (13 cases). Several 
enterprises are converting the waste or by-products into bio-fertilizers and/or bioenergy via 
anaerobic digestion or pelletizing the biomass (6 cases), or into cosmetics or for pharmaceutical 
use, e.g., soaps, lip balm (5 cases). Finally, some cases of redistribution via food banks, donation or 
direct resales were found (4 cases), and only one firm’s main value proposition is purified 
wastewater.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
982 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Table 1: Business model canvas elements for fruit and vegetable waste valorisation 
Key activities 
- 
Collection and redistribution of 
fruit & vegetable losses  
- 
Upcycling via processing or 
designing new products out of 
waste and by-products 
- 
Collection, recycling and 
recovering (inedible) waste 
 
Value proposition 
- 
Food (redistribution) 
- 
Biomaterials (textile, design, 
packaging) 
- 
Bio-fertilizers  
- 
Bioenergy  
- 
Cosmetics, pharmaceuticals 
- 
Food & feed (ingredients) 
- 
Purified water 
 
Customer segment 
- 
B2B 
- 
B2C 
Key resources 
- 
Discarded, imperfect or 
overripe fruits & vegetables 
- 
Various waste and by-products 
from production and processing 
(leaves, skin, stones, pulp etc.) 
- 
Inedible fruit & vegetable parts 
Customer relationship 
- 
The costumer / consumer as 
confederate 
against 
food 
waste 
Key partners 
- 
Private partners (from within 
and outside the fruit & 
vegetable chain) 
- 
Research 
- 
Public 
- 
Associative 
Channels 
- 
Direct: (e-)shops, 
redistribution, donation 
- 
Indirect: retailers, industry 
- 
Importance of (transparent) 
communication and 
marketing 
Costs 
- 
Costs for R&D, infrastructure (investments), or 
logistics (waste collection) 
Revenues 
- 
Some products obtain equal or even higher 
market prices than other products from the same 
category  
- 
Financial support by subsidies, crowdfunding 
 
Rather surprisingly, - at least as compared to other previous insights by the authors from the 
cereals, manure and olive chains (Donner & De Vries, 2021; Donner & Radic, 2021) - a lot of 
communication is undertaken by the firms about their newly created products and contribution to 
sustainable development. This most probably has to do with the predominance of the B2C target, 
and therefore a stronger direct implication of the civil society and consumers. Also, the 
attractiveness of the types of waste valorised plays a role, such as their potential value as healthy 
food products or ingredients, or eco-design for textiles. In some agrifood sectors, the word ’waste’ 
is avoided due to the intrinsic value of waste components and by-products. In the fruit and 
vegetable sector, this also holds, however, waste valorisation has here often a positive effect, 
namely guilt-free operating while finding creative and humourful solutions.  
Finally, nearly all of the initiatives studied explicitly demonstrate on their websites how they 
contribute to sustainable solutions via their business activities and value propositions. These 
solutions correspond to one, two or three of the sustainability dimensions – economic, 
environmental, and social – and are sometimes even expressed in very concrete (impact) numbers, 
especially when it comes to the environmental impact (e.g. quantities of waste valorised, of saved 
water, of CO2 reduced).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
983 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
As this review is not exhaustive and limited by an analysis of only secondary data in English 
language, more in-depth research is needed. This also comprises case studies in specific countries 
including researching the history and development of the enterprises, cooperation between 
businesses to co-create value, and interactions with actors from their larger business environment. 
Keywords  
circular economy, bioeconomy, business models, waste and by-product valorisation, fruit and 
vegetable sector 
References  
Caldeira, C., De Laurentiis, V., Corrado, S., van Holsteijn, F. & Sala, S. (2019) Quantification of food waste per 
product group along the food supply chain in the European Union: a mass flow analysis. Resources, 
Conservation and Recycling. 149, 479–488. 
De Laurentiis, V., Corrado, S. & Sala, S. (2018) Quantifying household waste of fresh fruit and vegetables in 
the EU. Waste management. 77, 238–251. 
De Vries, H., Donner, M., & Axelos, M. (2021) A New Conceptual ‘Cylinder’ Framework for Sustainable 
Bioeconomy Systems and Their Actors. Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics. 34(2), 1-26. 
Donner, M. & De Vries, H. (2021) How to innovate Business Models for a circular bioeconomy? Business 
Strategy and the Environment. 2021, 1–16.  
Donner, M. & Radić, I. (2021) Innovative circular business models in the olive oil sector for sustainable 
Mediterranean agrifood systems. Sustainability. 13(5), 2588. 
FAO (2011) Global food losses and food waste – extent, causes and prevention. Rome, UN FAO. Available 
from: https://www.fao.org/3/i2697e/i2697e.pdf. [Accessed: 11th April 2021].  
FUSIONS (2016) Estimates of European Food Waste Levels. Available from: https://www.eu-
fusions.org/index.php/publications. [Accessed: 21st July 2021].  
Morone, P., Koutinas, A., Gathergood, N., Arshadi, M. & Matharu, A. (2019) Food waste: challenges and 
opportunities for enhancing the emerging bioeconomy. Journal of cleaner production. 221, 10–16. 
Thyberg, K. L. & Tonjes, D. J. (2016) Drivers of food waste and their implications for sustainable policy 
development. Resources, Conservation and Recycling. 106, 110–123. 
 
Why Is It So Hard To Measure Impact 
In New Business Models? The Case 
Of A Collaborative Initiative For 
Reusing And Recycling Food Waste  
 
Burcin Hatipoglu1,*  
1 University of New South Wales  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
984 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
*b.hatipoglu@unsw.edu.au  
Extended abstract 
Tackling the social, environmental, and economic consequences of food waste has become a crucial 
issue for governments and society. Progress in Target 12.3 of the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), which is about reducing food loss and food waste by 2030, has been 
slow both in developed and developing parts of the world (United Nations, 2021). Mobilization of 
the food supply chain actors, including industry stakeholders (producers, distributors, wholesalers, 
and retailers), consumers, and regulatory agencies, is necessary for initiating and sustaining a 
circular ecosystem (Bhattacharya & Fayezi, 2021). However, stakeholders' involvement and their 
claims and value propositions can diverge, obstructing the long-term sustainability of the 
ecosystem (Bonadonna et al., 2019).  
The primary purpose of this study is to explore the conditions that facilitated a local initiative's 
progress to a circular ecosystem at the national level characterized by a co-designed circular 
business model with a broad range of stakeholders. In doing so, the study adopts a perspective to 
business models in which value creation happens with and for stakeholders (Freudenreich et al., 
2020). In particular, the study asks how value is created for networks of stakeholders and how the 
beneficiaries perceive it? The study's secondary aim is to discuss the potential impacts of a 
collaborative food waste reduction initiative and identify the limits and barriers in measuring the 
impact of the business model in collaboration with the stakeholders. The primary concerns in 
answering the secondary aim of the study are: how can we measure the impacts so that they will 
be relevant to all key stakeholders, and how can we move from measuring economic impact to 
measuring the contribution to people's wellbeing? The study draws from the literature on new 
sustainable business models, sustainable food supply chains, and stakeholder management theory, 
examining one collaborative initiative that aims to reuse and recycle food waste in Turkey.  
The "Soil-to-Soil Biodegradable Waste Management" project is initiated by Ebru Baybara Demir, a 
local chef, and entrepreneur. She is also a "social gastronomy entrepreneur" with several innovative 
projects in local gastronomy, women's employment, and biodiversity conservation (Eris et al., 
2022). The initiative is purposefully chosen as a case study, because of its broad stakeholder 
involvement, high visibility and its geographical coverage. Beginning in April 2021, the waste 
management project was applied in the city of Diyarbakır, collaborating with Kayapınar 
Municipality. The initiative involves reusing and recovering food at farmers' markets and festivals 
and recycling food waste via composting. Since June 2021, the initiative expanded to the national 
level (e.g., Kocaeli, Mersin, and Istanbul), and new collaborations were established with 
municipalities, schools, and volunteers. 
This study employs a two-step methodology, including a website and social media content analysis 
followed by semi-structured stakeholder interviews. The purpose of the website and social media 
content analysis is to document the evolution of the initiative, identify the stakeholders and 
beneficiaries, and list a set of activities that the stakeholders perform. The interviews allow 
discussing limits and barriers in measuring the impact of food waste reduction. The preliminary 
analysis points out that the initiative aims to tackle the pressing issues of poverty-hunger-access to 
food, food shortage, sustainable farming, and efficient water use. The preliminary analysis also 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
985 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
yields a list of the stakeholders and exemplifies the increasing numbers of volunteers and 
municipalities joining the initiative, the increasing media coverage, the shift in project outcomes 
from purely environmental to both social and environmental, and the lack of systematic impact 
measurement. An inquiry commissioned by the European Union reminds us that the evaluation of 
food waste prevention interventions is still at an early stage (Caldeira et al., 2019). And there are 
few studies on grassroots initiatives committed to reducing food loss and waste (Mariam et al., 
2020); therefore; scholars suggest that we need more studies demonstrating the effectiveness of 
food waste initiatives (Chauhan et al., 2021; Goossens et al., 2019; Huang et al., 2021). The attempts 
in this study to examine and discuss the evolution, activities, and involvement of stakeholders in 
the circular business model of a collaborative initiative will contribute to our understanding of new 
business models in food waste management (Senanayake et al., 2021). More complete information 
on the initiative's effectiveness would make the impacts more visible at various levels and improve 
future action design by the partners. 
Keywords  
New business models, stakeholder theory, food waste management, SDG 12.  
References  
Bhattacharya, A., & Fayezi, S. (2021). Ameliorating food loss and waste in the supply chain through multi-
stakeholder collaboration. Industrial Marketing Management, 93, 328-343.  
Bonadonna, A., Matozzo, A., Giachino, C., & Peira, G. (2019). Farmer behavior and perception regarding food 
waste and unsold food. British Food Journal, 121(1), 89-103.  
Caldeira, C., De Laurentiis, V., & Sala, S. (2019). Assessment of food waste prevention actions: Development 
of an evaluation framework to assess the performance of food waste prevention actions. 
Publications Office of the European Union.  
Chauhan, C., Dhir, A., Akram, M. U., & Salo, J. (2021). Food loss and waste in food supply chains. A systematic 
literature review and framework development approach. Journal of Cleaner Production, 295, 
126438.  
Eris, E. D., Pirnar, I., & Celebi, D. (2022). Experimental social entrepreneurship model in gastronomy: The case 
of Ebru Baybara Demir as a social gastronomy entrepreneur. International Journal of Gastronomy 
and Food Science, 100474.  
Freudenreich, B., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Schaltegger, S. (2020). A stakeholder theory perspective on business 
models: Value creation for sustainability. Journal of Business Ethics, 166(1), 3-18.  
Goossens, Y., Wegner, A., & Schmidt, T. (2019). Sustainability Assessment of Food Waste Prevention 
Measures: Review of Existing Evaluation Practices [Systematic Review]. Frontiers in Sustainable Food 
Systems, 3. https://www.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fsufs.2019.00090  
Huang, I. Y., Manning, L., James, K. L., Grigoriadis, V., Millington, A., Wood, V., & Ward, S. (2021). Food waste 
management: A review of retailers' business practices and their implications for sustainable value 
[Review]. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
285, 
Article 
125484. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.125484  
Mariam, N., Valerie, K., Karin, D., Angelika, W.-R., & Nina, L. (2020). Limiting food waste via grassroots 
initiatives as a potential for climate change mitigation: a systematic review. Environmental Research 
Letters, 15(12), 123008.  
Senanayake, D., Reitemeier, M., Thiel, F., & Drechsel, P. (2021). Business models for urban food waste 
prevention, 
redistribution, 
recovery 
and 
recycling 
(Vol. 
2021) 
[Article]. 
https://doi.org/10.5337/2021.208  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
986 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
United Nations. (2021). The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2021. https://www.fao.org/sustainable-
development-goals/indicators/1231/en/ 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
987 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
At The Heart Of The Implementation 
Of A Disruptive Sustainable Business 
Model (SBM): The PSS-CIRCULAR 
Case 
 
A structurationist analysis of the SBM ecosystem 
Catherine Kuszla1,*,+, Béatrice Bellini, Hanen Kooli-Chaabane2, 
Marielle Mathieu3  
1ESCE-Omnes Education, France; 2CEROS, Université Paris 
Nanterre, France; 3Métamorphose, France  
*ckuszla@omneseducation.com  
+ This research is supported by the French National Research Agency (Agence Nationale 
de la Recherche – ANR - CE10 program - Industry and factory of the future: Man, 
Organization, Technologies). 
Extended abstract 
The Sustainable Development is considered a major challenge of the 21st century (Jing, 2020) and 
several recent researches focus on sustainable innovations and how new technologies and social 
practices enable companies to become more sustainable (Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013, 
Hernández-Chea et al., 2021). In this context, the Circular Economy - CE (Ghisellini, Cialani & Ulgiati, 
2016) and the functional economy - FE (Stahel, 2005) appear as promising approaches to limiting 
raw material consumption while maintaining economic growth. The first one promotes a close 
product lifecycle loop by encouraging maintenance, remanufacturing of products, reuse of 
components, and recycling of materials or even by reducing the potential underuse of the delivered 
goods, where appropriate by their sharing (Agarwal & Steinmetz, 2019, Matsumoto & Umeda, 
2011). The second one encourages "dematerialization" with the sale of Product-Service Systems - 
PSS (Kjaer et al., 2019, Tukker, 2015). 
With such approaches, all economic actors must have an integrative representation of their own 
activity within an ecosystem (Bocken et al., 2013). A radical change is now required to move from 
a take-make-waste linear economy to a more resource preservation-friendly economy (Bocken et 
al., 2014). However, the operationalisation of the change needed is sorely lacking (Bocken, 
Weissbrod & Antikainen, 2021). The purpose of our exploratory research is to contribute to fill this 
gap. Our work consists in a longitudinal case study. It will participate to overcome the lack of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
988 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
empirical studies in the Sustainable Business Model innovation field (Evans et al., 2017). We present 
a comprehensive analysis of the implementation process of a new sustainable business model 
ecosystem within a traditional firm of the sport equipment sector (SPORT-CORPORATE). This 
implementation occurs through an innovation project named PSS-CIRCULAR. The environmental 
benefit of this project lies in its ability to maximize the use of sports goods traditionally purchased 
by multiple customers. The objective of the PSS-CIRCULAR project is twofold: to allow customers to 
access a variety of products and to minimize the underuse of these products. Our study began in 
October 2020 and is still underway. Interviews are conducted regularly by two researchers with the 
company’s managers and the project leader. In addition, all available public documents are 
collected and analysed.  
Our main research objective is to qualify potential generic success or risk factors that could occur 
during the implementation of a new Sustainable Business Model (SBM). To reach this objective, we 
elaborated a conceptual and theoretical framework to grasp the change process and the previous 
and new Business Model ecosystems. The aim of this paper is not to design a new business model, 
but to understand how it works in a specific environment. 
We place our work in the disruptive innovation field and more specifically in the ”business model 
innovation” identified by Markides (Markides, 2006). Sustainable business models are an emerging 
research field (Reinhardt et al., 2020) to cope with the sustainability in organizations (Bocken, Rana 
& Short, 2015, Hernández-Chea et al., 2021). We are in the 7th category of SBM identified by Bocken 
and her colleagues (2014), “Re-purpose the business for society/environment”. To qualify the 
existing business model (BM) and the emerging SBM, we consider the main blocks proposed by 
Osterwalder and Pigneur (2010) and redefined by Bouquin and Kuszla (2014): 
- An offer for users with direct or indirect social/environmental impacts, 
- A set of operational processes (internalized or not), 
- Key available resources (human or not), 
- Revenues (cash) or more exactly any kind of reward from any stakeholder, 
- Costs (in cash or efforts), 
- The resources’ financing or capturing capability which is necessary to understand the 
”return” for any stakeholder. 
We also adopt Boons and Lüdeke-Freund's (2013) interactionist approach of BM where social, 
technical and practical dimensions are embedded and co-constituted (Callon, 1991). The 
sociological theory of structuration (Giddens, 1984), whose benefits are recognized in both 
marketing and strategic fields (Williams, Davey & Johnstone, 2021, Whittington, 2010), has a double 
interest in this context: 
- 
It inscribes the studied phenomenon in a time and in episodes of structuring and allows to 
qualify the internal consistency of these periods according three dimensions (legitimation, 
domination and signification). It is important to identify steps in the building of the new SBM of 
the PSS-CIRCULAR project. 
- 
It allows to grasp the continuous interaction between individuals (for instance the project 
leader) and the structural context of their decisions and actions. 
In a first phase, we reconstruct the history, the trajectory and the episodes of the SBM emergence. 
In a second phase, we analyse the traditional and innovative BM ecosystems, according to the 
dimensions of the structure of Giddens and in relation to the evolution of their environment.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
989 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
During the analysis, we identified five stages or structuration episodes for the set-up of the SBM 
(outbreak, pilot experience, consolidation, implementation, integration). At each stage, the 
ecosystem of the involved stakeholders evolved. Different structural dimensions also were 
mobilized. And different elements of the business model needed to be unlocked.  
The first results show the interest of the structuration theory framework to analyse a 
transformation trajectory of an economic model at a micro level. This framework allows to  
articulate the contributions of sociology and strategic management. Beyond the relevance and a 
priori consistency of a SBM, perceived as commendable and well designed, the understanding of 
the real individual objectives of decision-makers seems to be critical for the success. The role of 
incentive and control systems becomes fundamental, particularly when the main objectives focus 
on the financial return-on-investment. 
Secondly the double analysis of the two BM ecosystems (SPORT-CORPORATE and PSS-CIRCULAR) 
with the Giddens’ framework, highlights two main risks. The first risk deals with inconsistencies in 
terms of shared meaning and domination facilities given to the PSS-CIRCULAR project. For instance, 
the key resources are not adapted to the targets, and even they are not well identified. The second 
risk is related to the differences in terms of the evolution of the representation systems, and in 
particular the environmental legitimation of the actions of each actor. Finally, in the new SBM 
implementation process, the rhythm of the evolution of the multiple structuration systems and the 
identification of the main consistency moments are key strategic activities. 
Keywords  
Sustainable Business Model, Structuration Theory, Circular Economy, PSS. 
References  
Agarwal, N. & Steinmetz, R. (2019) Sharing Economy: A Systematic Literature Review. International Journal 
of Innovation and Technology Management. 16 (06), 1930002. doi:10.1142/S0219877019300027. 
Bocken, N., Rana, P. & Short, S.W. (2015) Value mapping for sustainable business thinking. Journal of 
Industrial and Production Engineering. 32 (1), 67–81. doi:10.1080/21681015.2014.1000399. 
Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2013) A value mapping tool for sustainable business modelling. 
Corporate Governance. 13 (5), 482–497. doi:10.1108/CG-06-2013-0078. 
Bocken, N., Short, S.W., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice review to develop sustainable 
business 
model 
archetypes. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
65, 
42–56. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.039. 
Bocken, N., Weissbrod, I. & Antikainen, M. (2021) Business Model Experimentation for the Circular Economy: 
Definition and Approaches. Circular Economy and Sustainability. doi:10.1007/s43615-021-00026-z. 
Boons, F. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013) Business models for sustainable innovation: state-of-the-art and steps 
towards 
a 
research 
agenda. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
45, 
9–19. 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2012.07.007. 
Bouquin, H. & Kuszla, C. (2014) Le contrôle de gestion. 10th edition. Paris, Presses Universitaires de France. 
Callon, M. (1991) Techno-economic networks and irreversibility. Sociological Review. 38 (1), 132–161. 
doi:10.1111/j.1467-954X.1990.tb03351.x. 
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Van Fossen, K., Yang, M., Silva, E.A. & Barlow, C.Y. (2017) Business 
Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a Unified Perspective for Creation of Sustainable 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
990 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Business Models. Business Strategy & the Environment (John Wiley & Sons, Inc). 26 (5), 597–608. 
doi:10.1002/bse.1939. 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C. & Ulgiati, S. (2016) A review on circular economy: the expected transition to a 
balanced interplay of environmental and economic systems. Journal of Cleaner Production. 114, 11–
32. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.09.007. 
Giddens, A. (1984) The Constitution of Society: Outline of the Theory of Structuration. Berkeley and Los 
Angeles, University of California Press. 
Hernández-Chea, R., Jain, A., Bocken, N.M.P. & Gurtoo, A. (2021) The Business Model in Sustainability 
Transitions: A Conceptualization. Sustainability. 13 (11), 5763. doi:10.3390/su13115763. 
Jing, C. (2020) Sustainable Business Model: A Bibliometric Study. E3S Web of Conferences. 218, 02010. 
doi:10.1051/e3sconf/202021802010. 
Kjaer, L.L., Pigosso, D.C.A., Niero, M., Bech, N.M. & McAloone, T.C. (2019) Product/Service‐Systems for a 
Circular Economy: The Route to Decoupling Economic Growth from Resource Consumption? Journal 
of Industrial Ecology. 23 (1), 22–35. doi:10.1111/jiec.12747. 
Markides, C. (2006) Disruptive Innovation: In Need of Better Theory. Journal of Product Innovation 
Management. 23 (1), 19–25. doi:10.1111/j.1540-5885.2005.00177.x. 
Matsumoto, M. & Umeda, Y. (2011) An analysis of remanufacturing practices in Japan. Journal of 
Remanufacturing. 1 (1), 2. doi:10.1186/2210-4690-1-2. 
Osterwalder, A. & Pigneur, Y. (2010) Business Model Generation: A Handbook for Visionaries, Game Changers, 
and Challengers. John Wiley & Sons. 
Reinhardt, R., Christodoulou, I., García, B.A. & Gassó-Domingo, S. (2020) Sustainable business model 
archetypes for the electric vehicle battery second use industry: Towards a conceptual framework. 
Journal of Cleaner Production. 254. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.119994. 
Stahel, W.R. (2005) The Functional Economy: Cultural and Organizational Change. International Journal of 
Performability Engineering. 1 (2), 121–130. doi:10.23940/IJPE.05.2.P121.MAG. 
Tukker, A. (2015) Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy – a review. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 97, 76–91. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.049. 
Whittington, R. (2010) Giddens, structuration theory and strategy as practice. In: D. Golsorkhi, L. Rouleau, D. 
Seidl, & E. Vaara (eds.). Cambridge handbook of strategy as practice. Cambridge University Press. 
pp. 109–126. 
Williams, J., Davey, J. & Johnstone, M.-L. (2021) Marketing System Failure: Revisioning Layton’s Marketing 
System Model. Journal of Macromarketing. 41 (2), 411–426. doi:10.1177/0276146720961454. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
991 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Enabling food surplus redistribution 
for social purposes through a 
blockchain-based platform: insights 
on emerging business models 
 
Ludovica Pricipato1,*, Luca Secondi2, Marco Formentini3, Camilla 
Comis1, Caterina Trevisan3, Carlo Alberto Pratesi1  
1Department of Business Studies, Roma Tre University; 2Department 
of Innovation of Biological Systems, Food and Forestry, Tuscia 
University; 3Department of Information Engineering and Computer 
Science, University of Trento 
*ludovica.principato@uniroma3.it 
Extended abstract 
Theoretical background 
Worldwide Covid-19 pandemic exacerbated some social issues like poverty and food insecurity. 
Indeed, in Italy the number of individuals in absolute poverty raised in 2020 by over one million 
(Istat, 2021). Concerning food poverty, according to a report by ActionAid (2020) the requests for 
food aid in Italy have increased by up to 40%, making it difficult for local administrations and local 
authorities to respond quickly and effectively to these needs. In this context, an optimization of 
information flows and management of raw materials and stocks, involving various stakeholders - 
primarily local administrations - would make it possible to provide food to the neediest consumers 
and, at the same time, avoid the generation of further waste, contributing to the urgent 
transformation towards more resilient and sustainable food systems.  
Constant monitoring and communication of the various stages of the food supply chain would allow 
an improvement in production with a view to sustainability and effective intervention to reduce 
economic inequalities among final consumers. In this sense, the coordination of food supply chains 
with the specific support offered by digital technologies, such as blockchain, represents an 
important opportunity, which has received limited attention so far both in the academic community 
and in the industry. The blockchain technology can "break" the food supply chain into smaller parts 
and help to manage in a better way the food flow control (Stroumpoulis et al., 2021), through an 
improvement in the stream of communications and information between the parties in the food 
supply chain (Legowski et al., 2019). In addition to this, the use of blockchain technology facilitate 
the sharing of information with food banks to facilitate the distribution of uneaten food, thus 
helping to reduce food waste (FW) (Stroumpoulis et al., 2021).      

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
992 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
In this study, we focus on the advantages of using blockchain technology to support the 
redistribution of food surpluses along the entire food supply chain, with the specific aim of 
understanding in depth the implications for sustainability and the SDGs achievement. 
The importance of examine FW reduction and redistribution through the adoption of innovative 
solutions fits under the sustainable business models innovation framework. The sustainable 
business model concept is used in reference to environmental and social aspects such as corporate 
social responsibility (CSR), business sustainability, sustainable supply chain management and food 
security (Franceschelli et al., 2018).   
Indeed, Regusto, the platform analyzed in the present study, operates in a b2npo (business-to-non 
profit organization) business model, proposing a formula in which the local public administration 
manages the relationships between suppliers and non-profit entities by encouraging the donation 
and recovery of surpluses (Michelini et al., 2018). The emerging business model is currently being 
adapted to include not only food surplus, but also other types of non-food products. 
Methodology 
The present work highlights the results of a multidisciplinary project put forward by the University 
of Roma Tre, Tuscia and Trento in partnership with the start-up Recuperiamo Srl. The main aim is 
to analyze the Regusto platform and its business model. Regusto represents a responsible 
innovation based on the blockchain technology to tackle FW, while alleviating food poverty in 
Italy. To do so, we will put forward an in-depth analysis of the platform using both qualitative data 
(i.e., semi-structured interviews, secondary information), and quantitative ones (i.e., redistributed 
food volumes and specific key performance indicators). 
 
Preliminary findings  
The present research is still in progress. From the preliminary results it emerges that the business 
model adopted by the Regusto platform is in constant evolution due to the incertitude of the 
moment it will change on the basis of the stakeholders’ requirements and resources, and the 
external contextual factors influenced by the pandemic. The value proposition of the platform 
remains unchanged: it combines food surplus management and non-profit sectors through an 
innovative food sharing business model and its potential is to amplify and digitize the recovery of 
food surpluses in favor of the most vulnerable individuals. The combination of food surplus 
management with digital innovation will benefit all the three pillars of sustainable development: 
society, economy, and environment in line with the SDGs by the UN (Stroumpoulis et al., 2021; 
Saberi et al., 2019). The first data revealed that the food flows monitored in 2021 amounted to 
106,741 kg of food donations which translated into figures equate to 212,000 meals distributed. 
Considering the environmental impacts, thanks to the redistribution of excess food that was 
recovered and not thrown away, it was possible to avoid the emission of 21,348 kg of CO2 
equivalent. 
Theoretical and practical implications 
Unlike other studies in which the implementation of new digital technologies, such as blockchain, 
are mainly analyzed in terms of information transparency and traceability (Rejeb et al., 2020; 
Behnke et al., 2020), in this paper we analyze how the use of blockchain technology can support 
the transparent redistribution of food surplus for social purposes, developing a sustainable business 
model currently in evolution. This aspect of our study facilitates inter- and transdisciplinary 
research on new business models contributing to sustainable development. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
993 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The paper’s novelty is both empirical and theoretical. From a managerial  and food supply chain 
point of view contributions will be manifold: 1) the extension of integration and information 
exchange at supply chain level to cope with FW and support redistribution for social purposes; 2) 
the study of new dynamics related to of the supply chain and the relationships between the 
different actors that make it up, following the implementation of new digital technologies, like the 
Blockchain; 3) a contribution to the fields of Responsible Research and Innovation and Sustainable 
Supply Chain Management, with particular attention to the social dimension, still in the 
development and expansion phase, in connection with the Literatures of Sustainability Transition 
and CSR; and a 4) reduction of management and warehouse costs.  
Practical implications concern the three areas of sustainability, in alignment with the triple bottom 
line and the Law 166/2016“Gadda” on FW: Social impact of support to non-profit entities and to 
categories of subjects in need; direct economic benefits of reducing the costs of managing the food 
emergency for public administrations and indirect losses resulting from the freezing of production 
chains; environmental in terms of prevention and reduction of FW, as well as planning of territorial 
fiscal policies based on the quantities donated, such as reduction of the waste tax. In sum, the 
project allows an approach to different SDGs #: 1, 2, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13. Finally, we believe that this 
study can contribute to the body of knowledge New Business Models in alignment with Sustainable 
Development Goal #12.  
Keywords  
New Business Models, Blockchain Technology, Food Waste Management, Food supply chain, Food 
surplus redistribution 
References  
ActionAid (2020) La pandemia che affama l’Italia. Covid-19, povertà alimentaria e diritto al cibo. 
Behnke, K. & Janssen, M.F.W.H.A. (2020) Boundary conditions for traceability in food supply chains using 
blockchain technology. International Journal of Information Management. 52, 1-10. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.05.025 [Accessed 21th January 2022] 
Legowski, M., Brzezina, N., Ciaian, P., Lima, M., Mondelaers, K., Van de Pol, L., Santini, F. & Stein, A. (2019) 
Cap specific objectives: Farmer position in value chain. European Commission. Report number: 3. 
Franceschelli, M.V., Santoro, G. & Candelo, E. (2018) Business model innovation for sustainability: a food 
start-up case study. British Food Journal. 120 (10), 2483-2494. Available from: 10.1108/BFJ-01-2018-
0049.  
Istituto Nazionale di Statistica (2021) La povertà in Italia/anno 2020. Istat.  
Michelini, L., Principato, L. & Iasevoli, G. (2018) Understanding Food Sharing Models to Tackle Sustainability 
Challenges. 
Ecological 
Economics 
145, 
205–217. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolecon.2017.09.009 [Accessed 25 January 2022] 
Principato, L., Secondi, L., Cicatiello, C. & Mattia, G. (2021) Caring more about food: The unexpected positive 
effect of the Covid-19 lockdown on household food management and waste. Socio-Economic 
Planning Sciences. Available from:  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seps.2020.100953  [Accessed 26 
January 2022] 
Rejeb, A., Keogh, J. G., Zailani, S., Treiblmaier, H. & Rejeb, K. (2020) Blockchain Technology in the Food 
Industry: A Review of Potentials, Challenges and Future Research Directions. Logistics. 4, 1-26. 
Available from: 10.3390/logistics4040027 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
994 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Saberi, S., Kouhizadeh, M., Sarkis, J. & Shen, L. (2019) Blockchain technology and its relationships to 
sustainable supply chain management. International Journal of Production Research.  57 (7), 2117-
2135. Available from: 10.1080/00207543.2018.1533261 
Stroumpoulis, A., Kopanaki, E. & Oikonomou, M. (2021) The Impact of Blockchain Technology on Food Waste 
Management in the Hospitality Industry. ENTRENOVA - ENTerprise REsearch InNOVAtion. 7(1), 428–
437. Available from: https://doi.org/10.54820/CQRJ6465  
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
995 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Mitigating Post-Harvest Food Loss: 
Business Model in an Emerging 
Economy Context 
 
Subhanjan Sengupta1,2,*, Rahul Singh2, Sonal Choudhary3 
1Innovation Management Group, RESOURCE Research Group, Faculty 
of Social Sciences and Business Studies, University of Eastern Finland, 
Kuopio, Finland; 2Strategy, Innovation and Entrepreneurship Area, Birla 
Institute 
of 
Management 
Technology, 
Greater 
Noida, 
India; 
3Sustainable Management, University of York Management School, 
University of York, York Science Park, UK 
*subhanjan.sengupta@uef.fi  
Acknowledgement. The authors gratefully acknowledge TRANSSITioN project for this 
collaborative work. The TRANSSITioN project is funded by the Science and Technology Facilities 
Council (STFC) Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) (grants ST/S002871/1 and ST/T001313/1). 
It combines broad and diverse experience from India and the UK to investigate sustainable 
improvements to the vegetable supply chain in India. 
Extended abstract 
Literature Background and Research Question  
Reducing food loss and waste in the agriculture value chain is necessary for emerging economies in 
achieving their sustainable development goals. Food waste is commonly found at the consumption 
level in developed and industrialised economies. In emerging and developing economies, food loss 
is common in the upstream value chain due to unpredictable climatic conditions, lack of 
infrastructural and technological strength, poor quality logistics, regulatory gaps, and lack of 
transparent marketing systems (Gustavsson et al., 2011; Lipinski et al. 2013; Kaza et al. 2018). Food 
loss refers to the decrease in food mass made for human consumption, occurring mainly during 
production, post-harvesting and processing (Dora et al. 2020). Market value of produce decreases 
due to spillage, damage, and degradation. While the state of the art focuses on industrial and 
institutional interventions for the prosperity and efficiency of global supply chains, there is 
insufficient research on business models for reducing upstream food loss in developing countries 
(Dora et al. 2020; Chauhan et al. 2021). Analysing the business model at the local level helps in 
learning which actors operate in the value chain, how value (monetary/economic) is offered in the 
network, and what practices and interventions can be incorporated (Ritter and Lettl, 2018). We 
have taken up India as a case context and seek to understand how this looks like. India losses 926 
billion INR (Dollar 12 billion) in rejection of produce at farm gate and the across the distribution 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
996 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
channel. 33 We ask the following research question: What business model exists in the fresh 
vegetable supply chain and how do the actors make sense of solutions for mitigating post-harvest 
loss of fresh produce? 
Methods 
The methodology was qualitative to get a more nuanced understanding of the context (Eriksson 
and Kovalainen, 2015). We followed the paradigm of considering study participants as 
knowledgeable people who are capable of explaining their experiences (Gehman et al. 2018). 
Interviews of experts with contextual knowledge is a time tested method of data collection (Bogner 
and Menz 2009). We conducted semi-structured interviews (40 to 60 minutes each) with 15 supply 
chain experts. The interviews were recorded with consent, manually transcribed, and inductively 
analysed for identifying thematic patterns (Patton 1990). In interest of wordcount, the findings are 
briefly laid out. Thematic and data tables will be integrated while developing a full paper.  
Findings: Actor Insights 
Ownership 
The value chain actors expect the local governments to take ownership of the loss of fresh produce, 
and play a key role in ensuring successful implementation and scaling of any new solution for 
mitigating post-harvest FLW. Governmental trust is essential for any innovation to be adopted by 
farmers and distributors. A collective ownership model is needed between farms, supply chain 
nodes, and market places, to form a production and market cluster for mobilising initiatives and 
investments in infrastructural solutions for better handling and sorting of produce. In a public-
producer-private-partnership (PPPP) model, the state can lead multi stake holder ownerships for 
developing production clusters and integrating low and high tech FLW mitigation solutions. Farmer 
cooperatives can be empowered to become producer companies partnering with organized 
retailers and exporters for ensuring higher storage value of fresh produce. 
Value addition points 
The potential value addition points by implementing new interventions points have multiple 
aspects: increase in shelf-life, preservation and assurance of quality, reducing uncertainty in 
harvesting and pricing, data capturing for support systems, direct market linkages, and shortening 
cash cycles. Demand-supply-price uncertainty results in residual produce which needs to be stored 
and phased out. Varying harvesting time, uncertainty of transportation and labour, and retreating 
market prices call for localised and low scale storage solutions. Locally feasible temperature and 
humidity controlled units are needed to give 12 to 24 hours of pre-cooling for increasing shelf-life. 
Digital solutions need to increase reliability of projections. Timely transport depends on real-time 
information on harvest time, availability of transportation and labour, and identification of spot 
buyers (retailers, hoteliers, direct consumers, and food processor). Flattening the value chain with 
direct market linkages can help the value chain actors aggregate at a local level, strengthen B2B 
connectivity through partnerships and investment of resources, shorten value chains, and increase 
frequency of cash inflows.  
Beneficiaries of value addition 
Potential beneficiaries (who are also the most ignored ones) in an improved business model, are 
the unorganized and informal sector (push carts, local markets, petty shops), and small size rural 
retail, who have a common practice of dumping unsold produce. They operate in enormous volume 
 
33 Steps Taken to Reduce Post Harvest Food Losses, PIB, Feb 2016 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
997 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
with zero temperature control or data driven solutions. Though indigenous and affordable solutions 
are useful to them, they are an ignored market due to low returns. Organised farmer groups and 
market agents will also be the beneficiaries of portable off-grid cold chain solutions, as there is no 
value addition beyond aggregation for sorting and grading.  
Operations and value delivery mechanisms 
The time between demand estimation and sowing of seeds is a three-month period, that can be 
used for planning the access and distribution of produce. In the time between crop cycles, data 
science solutions can be used for information on market conditions (price and demand) and for 
informing farming decisions. IOT based platforms mapping market order, harvested produce, and 
pre-cooling arrangements, will help in addressing the embedded perception that a produce does 
not sell unless it is freshly harvested. Making affordable low-tech solutions available at farm gate 
may create a pull oriented value chain where the downstream demand drives the upstream supply. 
Beginning with a network of innovative off-grid modular cold solutions for maintaining moisture 
levels in tomatoes when stored for some time, and gradually scale up by exploring high valued 
crops, such as tamarind or turmeric. 
Discussion 
Given the increasing interest in large scale technological solutions for large retailers in agriculture 
value chains, there is a need for reducing post-harvest food loss in small-scale farming and in the 
other value capture points in the upstream supply chain (Dora et al. 2020; Chauhan et al. 2021). 
This study reinforces the need for new information and knowledge on the value chain of agricultural 
produce in emerging economies, with India as a case, and identifies what is needed for a sustainable 
business model to deal with post-harvest loss of fresh produce. The business model framework 
(Figure 1) tell us who the primary actors are, what are their value creation activities, and how 
certain interventions can help in reducing post-harvest FLW. Low scale modular cold chain solutions 
would enable wastage reduction and digital interventions would reduce cost of production by 
bringing in demand predictability, shorter cash cycles and a transparent price discovery mechanism. 
This will enable the upstream value chain actors implement transformative, equitable and 
sustainable business models (McElwee et al. 2020) for sustainable agricultural practices. This is not 
to propose this as the only business model for combating food loss in emerging economies like 
India, but it sets the background for expanding this as well as for informing other research efforts 
in this direction. 
Keywords 
business model, food loss, value chain, agriculture, emerging economy 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
998 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 1: Business model for integrating post-harvest FLW mitigating solutions with existing 
practices 
References 
Bogner, A. & Menz, W. (2009) The theory-generating expert interview: epistemological interest, forms of 
knowledge, interaction. In: Bogner, A., Littig, B. & Menz, W. (Eds.) Interviewing Experts. Great Britain: 
Palgrave Macmillan, pp. 43–80. 
Chauhan, C., Dhir, A., Akram, M. U., & Salo, J. (2021) Food loss and waste in food supply chains: s systematic 
literature review and framework development approach. Journal of Cleaner Production, 126438. 
Dora, M., Biswas, S., Choudhary, S., Nayak, R., & Irani, Z. (2020) A system-wide interdisciplinary conceptual 
framework for food loss and waste mitigation strategies in the supply chain. Industrial Marketing 
Management, 93, 492-508. 
Eriksson, P. & Kovalainen, A. (2015) Qualitative methods in business research: a practical guide to social 
research. London: Sage Publications. 
Gehman, J., Glaser, V.L., Eisenhardt, K.M., Gioia, D., Langley, A., & Corley, K. G. (2018) Finding theory-method 
fit: a comparison of three qualitative approaches to theory building. Journal of Management Inquiry. 
27 (3), 284-300. 
Gustavsson, J., Cederberg, C., Sonesson, U., van Otterdijk, R., & Meybeck, A. (2011) Global food losses and 
food waste: extent, causes and prevention. Rome: FAO. 
Kaza, S., Yao, L., Bhada-Tata, P., & Van Woerden, F. (2018) What a waste 2.0: a global snapshot of solid waste 
management to 2050. Urban Development Series. Washington, DC: World Bank.  
Lipinski, B., Hanson, C., Lomax, J,. Kitinija, L., Waite, R., & Searchinger, T. (2013) Reducing food loss and waste. 
In: Searchinger, T., Waite, R., Hanson, C. & Ranganathan, J. (eds.) Creating a Sustainable Food Future. 
Washington, DC: World Resources Institute. Pp. 51-65. 
McElwee, P., Calvin, K., Campbell, D., Cherubini, F., Grassi, G., Korotkov, V., ... & Smith, P. (2020) The impact 
of interventions in the global land and agri‐food sectors on nature’s contributions to people and the 
UN sustainable development goals. Global Change Biology, 26(9), 4691-4721. 
Patton, M. (1990) Qualitative evaluation and research methods. Newbury Park: Sage. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
999 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Ritter, M., & Schanz, H. (2019) The sharing economy: a comprehensive business model framework. Journal of 
cleaner production, 213, 320-331. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1000 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Food recovery ecosystem: a 
systematic literature review 
 
Alberto Morgante* 
Department of Law, Economics, Politics and Modern Languages, 
LUMSA University 
*a.morgante@lumsa.it 
Abstract 
The problem of poverty and the resulting problems of food insecurity have been increasingly 
relevant in recent decades. Moreover, the emergence of digital technologies and the sharing 
economy has made this issue even more relevant in recent years, and it has reached even greater 
relevance with the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic, which has significantly worsened the 
conditions of those who were already poor, while at the same time making poor people who were 
not poor before the pandemic. This research uses a systematic literature review approach to 
analyse the academic production of the last ten years on the themes of food recovery and food 
sharing, in order to outline the main actors and practices. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1001 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 4.1 - New Theoretical Foundations of 
Business Models for Sustainability as Social 
Action 
Track chairs: Florian Lüdeke-Freund, Tobias Froese 
(ESCP Business School) 
 
This track explores the status quo and future directions of research on business models for 
sustainability as social action. Building on the prominent activity-based perspective of Zott 
and Amit (2010), business models realize their sustainability effects in and through social 
activities.  
We therefore invite research that develops the conceptual foundations for a better 
understanding of business models as the complex socio-cultural phenomena that they are 
at the level of real organizations. Theories that lend themselves to this endeavor include 
theories of social practice, Alexandrian pattern theory, and social mechanism theory. 
Similarly, we invite research that applies these theories to explore how business models for 
sustainability can contribute to a sustainable transformation of their socio-ecological 
environment. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1002 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Greenwashing: A Broken Business 
Model  
 
Esben Rahbek Gjerdrum Pedersen* and Kirsti Reitan Andersen 
1Copenhagen Business School, Department of Management, Society, 
and Communication, Dalgas Have 15, 2000 Frederiksberg, Denmark  
*ergp.msc@cbs.dk   
Abstract 
Is greenwashing a business model? The paper is a conceptual effort to advance the discussions of 
greenwashing though the lenses of business model thinking. We argue that the business model 
literature can offer a useful supplement to the existing conceptualisations of greenwashing by 
linking talk-action disconnects to the broader business architecture. Essentially, greenwashing is 
considered as a broken business model, which characterizes organisations that deliberately 
disconnect the promises to the stakeholders (i.e. value proposition) from the underlying business 
architecture. We also argue that the concept of grenwashing can contribute to the business model 
literature by drawing attention to organisations with imperfect business achitetures, which fail to 
deliver on the value proposition communicated to their stakeholders. Fundamentally, 
greenwashing calls attention to the multitude of organisations with limited integration beween the 
individual building blocks of a business model.  
Key words 
Greenwashing, business models, corporate sustainability, dissonance. 
Introduction 
The integration of social and environment issues within the organization and in its external 
stakeholder relationships is often considered as a key goal of corporate sustainability (Hengst et al., 
2020). However, it is also widely acknowledged that many companies pay only lip service to the 
sustainability agenda. The inconsistency between corporate “talk” and “action” when it comes to 
sustainability has led to accusations of greenwashing, which can be broadly defined as: “(…) 
communication that misleads people into adopting overly positive beliefs about an organization’s 
environmental performance” (Lyon and Montgomery, 2015, p. 226). Greenwashing is by no means 
marginal phenomenon (Kim and Lyon, 2015). On the contrary, the literature has reported product 
greenwashing of more than 90 percent (Delmas and Burbano, 2011; Lyon and Montgomery, 2015). 
Most recently, the European Commission (EC) concluded that 42 percent of green online claims 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1003 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
were exaggerated, deceptive or false (EC, 2021). Therfore, greenwashing often seems to be 
‘business as usual’ rather than an exceptional case at the fringes of the business community.  
The aim of this study is to advance the study of greenwashing through the lenses of business model 
thinking. The literature on greenwashing has made significant progress in categorizing different 
types of greenwashing “talk” whereas it has paid less attention to origin of the organizational 
“action” to which the talk relates (e.g. manufacturing processes, distribution processes, partner 
relations etc.). Here, the business model literature holds potential for enriching the greenwashing 
debate with its emphasis on the different building blocks that enable value creation, value delivery, 
and value capture. Conversely, the greenwashing literature can contribute to business model 
thinking by drawing attention to the multitude of organisations with inconsistent, unbalanced, and 
broken business models. Ultimately, greenwashing can be seen as a special case for organisations, 
which fail to align the communicated value proposition with its underlying transformation system 
and stakeholder relationships. 
The remainer of the paper is structured as follows. The paper will begin with a general introduction 
to greenwashing, its core characteristics and relationship to other theoretical concepts addressing 
talk-action disconnects, such as decoupling (Crilly et al., 2016) and corporate hypocrisy (Higgins et 
al., 2020). No claim is made that the theoretical overview covers the entirety of concepts in the 
academic literature which somehow addresse talk-action inconsistencies in organisations.  The 
conceptual introduction is subsequently used as a springboard for proposing  a new categorization 
of greenwashing, which takes the point of departure in a business model perspective. The fashion 
industry is used as a short case example for illustrating the different components of greenwashing 
from a business model perspective. The conclusion section will summarise the main findings from 
the paper and suggest future avenues for advancing greenwashing research. 
Greenwashing and Related Concepts  
There is limited consensus about the meaning of greenwashing in the academic literature (Seele 
and Gatti, 2017; Zharfpeykan, 2021; Kassinis and Panayiotou, 2018). A few examples of 
greenwashing definitions are provided in Table 1. In general, greenwashing is considered as the act 
of misleading people into forming positive opinions about the environmental performance of an 
organisation  or its offerings  (Delmas and Burbano, 2011; Lyon and Montgomery, 2015). 
Greenwashing comes in many shapes and forms, ranging from the selective use of vague 
sustainability claims to outright lies about the sustainability performance of a product or an 
organization (Gacek, 2020; Lyon and Montgomery, 2015; Siano et al., 2017). As an example of 
greenwashing, Marquis et al. (2016, p. 483) mention selective disclosure of companies, which: “(…) 
disclose positive environmental actions while concealing negative ones to create a misleadingly 
positive impression of overall environmental performance (…)”. In other words, greenwashing is not 
an unfortunate mistake but a deliberate attempt to mislead stakeholders. An well-known example 
is the Volkswagen scandal where the automanufacturer manipulated the emission data of their cars 
(Aurand et al., 2018; Lane, 2016; Siano et al., 2017).  
Table 1: Examples of Greenwashing Definitions 
Definition: 
Source: 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1004 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
“(…) the act of misleading consumers regarding the 
environmental practices of the company (firm-level 
greenwashing) or the environmental benefits of a product or 
service (product-level greenwashing).” 
(Delmas and Burbano, 
2011, p. 66) 
“(…) a co-creation of an external accusation toward an 
organization with regard to presenting a misleading green 
message.”  
(Seele and Gatti, 2017, 
p. 248) 
“(…) any communication that misleads people into adopting 
overly positive beliefs about an organization’s environmental 
performance, practices, or products.”  
(Lyon and Montgomery, 
2015, p. 226) 
“Greenwashing refers to the practice of "not walking the 
talk", which means that a company's sustainability claims 
are at variance with its actual corporate activities (…).” 
Pizzeti et al., (2021, p. 
22) 
“(…) downplays unfavourables and high‐impact domains and 
highlights favourable but less relevant points”. 
Zharfpeykan (2021, p. 
2209) 
“(…) disclose positive environmental actions while concealing 
negative ones to create a misleadingly positive impression of 
overall environmental performance (…) ”.  
Marquis et al., (2016, 
p.483) 
“(..) a communication practice that consists of the deliberate 
and voluntary disclosure of environmentally misleading (or 
even false) information by a firm and which the public 
understands to be deceptive”. 
Ferrón‐Vílchez et al. 
(2021, p. 860) 
“(…) selective disclosure on sustainability issues without full  
reporting  of  material  sustainability  issues  to  overstate  its  
true  sustainability  performance”. 
Hummel and Festl-Pell, 
2015, p. 372) 
 
Over the years, there has been a mushrooming of more specific types of greenwashing, including 
CSR-washing (Pope and Wæraas, 2016), Blue washing (misuse of United Nations Global Compact) 
(Berliner and Prakash, 2015), and SDG washing (misuse of SDGs) (Heras-Saizarbitoria et al., 2022). 
Moreover, overlapping concepts like window-dressing and smokescreening are sometimes used as 
synonyms of greenwashing to describe selective disclosure of favourable environmental 
information, which fail to provide an accurate picture of the actual environmental performance of 
a product or a company (Pedersen, 2006). Last, scholars have introduced terms which represent 
the antidotes to greenwashing, where companies intentially under-communicate their 
environmental practices. For instance, the concept of brownwashing cover undue modesty to 
disguise the costs of sustainability activities (Kim and Lyon, 2015). Other concepts describing 
companies underreporting rather than overreporting environmental performance include 
greenhushing  (Font et al., 2017) and strategic silence (Carlos and Lewis, 2018).   
Greenwashing cuts across a number of different academic disciplines (Lyon and Montgomery, 
2015). Theoretically, greenwashing is also only one of many concepts which addresses the 
disconnect between the organisational talk and action. Most notably, there is a rich academic 
literature on decoupling, which was originally used to describe how organisations protected core 
operations from external expectations by symbolically adopting “inefficient” policies and structures 
(Meyer and Rowan, 1977). Here, decoupling is essentially about a disconnect between a policy and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1005 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
its implementation, which allows the organization to continue daily operations while at the same 
time meeting the multitude of expectations from the environment (Bromley and Powell, 2012; 
Hengst et al., 2020). Decoupling has also be applied in the study of sustainability and greenwashing, 
e.g. when oil companies draw attention away from crises and environmentally harming business 
activities (Bromley and Powell, 2012; Kassinis and Panayiotou, 2018). More recently, scholars have 
also talked about means-ends decoupling, where there is actually an element of consistency 
between saying and doing but where the latter has little to do with the core goals and processes in 
the organization (Bromley and Powell, 2012). For instance, fast fashion companies producing cheap 
clothes at high speed organize means-ends decoupling through compartmentalization of their 
circular economy activities from core business  practices (Stål and Corvellec, 2021). However, 
decoupling is only greenwashing when an organisation actively tries to mislead  stakeholders about 
its conduct regarding sustainability in order to improve reputation, attract resources, or hide 
controversial activities (Crilly et al., 2016). For instance, means-end decoupling can also cover 
situations where  the consistency between talk and action is complex, ambiguous, and uncertain, 
and where it is unclear what actions will allow the company to deliver its promises (ibid.). In the 
words of Hironaka and Schofer (2002, p. 215):  
“In certain cases, decoupling may be the product of strategic action. However, it 
may also reflect altruistic or norms-based action, or even incompetence, accident 
or chance (…). Whether or not strategic action is involved is an empirical 
question, not something that should be presumed.”  
Another literature addressing the talk-action disconnect concerns organisational hypocrisy 
(Brunsson, 1993, 2002). The literature on hypocrisy rest on the assumption that talk-action 
consistency is difficult, e.g. due to lack of knowledge, resources, time, feasibility etc. (Brunsson, 
1993). For instance, organisations are met with multiple, and not necessarily consistent stakeholder 
demands, which make it necessary for the organization serve different interests with different types 
and talk, talk-action, and/or action (Christensen et al., 2019). Moreover, talkers in organisations 
may be different from the people who act, which are likely to produce inconsistency in saying and 
doing, promises and practices. In the words of Brunsson (1993, p. 496): “(…) people who are free to 
express ideas without having to take action can often afford to defend view that are more moral, 
beautiful or true, and less feasible, than the view that the actors have to be guided by”. Where 
hypocrisy is usually thought associated with a lack of moral integrity, organisation scholars argue 
that an element of inconsistency between talk and action is unavoidable and a normal 
organisational practice (Christensen et al., 2020; Higgins et al., 2020). In some cases, hypocrisy may 
even create opportunities for change that was not possible without it (Cho et al., 2015).  In 
summary, the concept of hypocrisy overlaps with greenwashing only when discrepancies between 
talk and action are rooted in duplicitous attempts to mislead stakeholders about the organisation’s 
sustainability performance.  
There is also a small, but growing, literature on organisational bullshit, which can be seen as a catch-
all phrase for corporate rhetoric which creates a positive image of someone of something 
irrespective of the actual organizational reality. From mostly being associated with the spoken 
language, the concept of ‘bullshit’ has lately been subject to scholarly inquiry in the management 
and organisation literature (Spicer, 2013; Morgan, 2010). The distinguishing characteristic of a 
bullshitting company is the general disregard of the truth and the organisational reality (Frankfurt, 
2005; Morgan, 2010; Spicer, 2013). As noted by Spicer (p. 657): “(…) a good portion of talk and text 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1006 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
in organisations seems to be fundamentally ‘empty’, bearing little relationship with the reality of 
what goes on in the organisation”. Bullshit can thus be seen as talk and text unconcerned with truth 
(Spicer, 2013, p. 664). However, not all bullshit in organisations is part of a deliberate attempt to 
mislead others. For instance, corporate lingo about “disruption,” “resilience,” and “agility” is not 
necessarily about plotting against others or oneself. While bullshit arguably benefits the bullshitter, 
some ’empty talk’ and ‘hot air’ in organisations can also be socially acceptable codes that reflect 
membership of a community irrespective of its proximity to the truth. Unlike a greenwashing 
organisation, which is intentionally misleading stakeholders about its environmental practices, a 
bullshitting organisation is simply quite indifferent about the truth and the organisational reality 
what goes on in the organization (Morgan, 2010, p. 1577). In the words of Frankfurt: (2005, p. 13): 
“The fact about himself that the bullshitter hides (…) is that the truth-values of 
his statements are of no central interest to him; what we are not to understand 
is that his intention is neither to report the truth nor to conceal it. This does not 
mean that his speech is anarchically impulsive, but that the motive guiding and 
controlling it is unconcerned with how the things about which he speaks truly 
are.” 
In summary, a number of terms in the academic literature address talk-action disconnects between 
and organisation’s communication and its actual practices. What separate greenwashing from the 
concepts described about is its thematic focus on environmental issues and the emphass on 
deliberate efforts to mislead customers or other stakeholders.  However, as a Seele and Gatti (2017) 
correctly point out, greenwashing cannot be fully understood without paying attention to the 
individuals or groups accusing the organisation as a greenwasher (activists, media, consumer 
agencies etc.). Just like one organisation may have an incentive to greenwash, so may another 
organisation have an incentive to accuse others of greenwashing, e.g. by blaming them for not 
doing enough or failing to ’walk the talk’.  Therefore, an analysis og greenwashing have to pay 
attention to the accused as well as the accuser.  
A Business Model Perspective on Greenwashing 
The concept of greenwashing has rarely been analysed through the lenses of business model 
thinking, even though the latter provides an interesting new perspective for understanding 
different types of talk-action disconnects. More specifically, the academic greenwashing literature 
is often conceptual in nature and focusing on developing different categories of greenwashing, 
rather than looking at their connection to overall business architecture. Distinctions between talk-
action disconnects are mostly linked to the talk rather than the action, e.g. manufacturing activities, 
input materials, or supplier relationsips. Here, the greenwashing literature can learn from the 
various frameworks proposed for conventional as well as sustainable business models (Johnson et 
al., 2016; Lüdeke-Freund, 2009; Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010). What these frameworks have in 
common is that they try to outline the fundamental building blocks necessary for creating, 
delivering and capturing value. While the original business model literature emphasised the 
company and its customer relationships, the literature on sustainable business models adopt a 
broader and more holistic perspective, which give priority to economic, social, and environmental 
value, and a broader range of stakeholder relationships (Freudenreich et al., 2020; Pedersen et al., 
2018). According to Lüdeke-Freund et al. (2018, p. 147): ”A sustainable business model is about 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1007 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
creating significantly increased positive effects and/or significantly  reduced negative effects for the 
natural environment and society through changes in the way a company and its network create, 
deliver, and capture value”.   
While acknowleding the differences between the various business model frameworks, we will 
distinguish between building blocks: - the value proposition, the customer interface, the business 
transformation system, the finance and accounting  system, and the non-market stakeholder 
environment. The value proposition covers how the company’s business activities create benefits 
for customers and other stakeholders. In the case of greenwashing, companies deliberately create 
misalignment between the communicated promises and the realised benefits. The customer 
interface is about the relationships that companies establish with their customer segments. As an 
example of greenwashing, the company may try attract environmentally conscious customer 
segments through misleading marketing. The business transformation system covers the 
infrastructure which enable the company to transform inputs into outputs. Central components of 
the business transformation system is the key resources, core activities, and strategic partner 
relationships (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010). The finance and accounting system addresses the 
economic, social and environmental impacts from operating the business model. The impacts do 
not only cover the costs and revenues, but also the intended and unintended effects on the 
stakeholders, society and the environment. In the case of greenwashing, a company may hide 
important environmental impacts in the upstream supply chain in their sustainability report. Last, 
the non-market stakeholder environment covers the relationships with stakeholders beyond the 
constituencies directly involved in the core business activities. Examples include for instance 
regulatory authories, labour market organisations, community groups, and non-governmental 
organisations. An example of greenwashing is companies, which oversell participation in 
sustainability initiatives (e.g. certifications, labels, and multi-stakeholder initiatives) which require 
only limited commitment or cover only a fraction of the business activities. Figure 1 shows how 
greenwashing can emerge in different components of the business model. Moreover, in Table 1 we 
use the fashion industry as an example to illustrate the different types of greenwashing.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1008 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
 
Figure 1: Greenwashing from a business model perspective. 
⑦
⑧
Value proposition
Business transformation system
Customer interface
Finance and accounting system
Non-market stakeholder environment
Greenwashing examples:
4. The company attracts green 
segments with misleading claims
and labels.
5. The company makes it difficult
for customers to evaluate the 
environmental footprint of the 
products and services.
6. The company claims
sustainability while locking
customers into into costly
relationships (e.g. frequent
updates and repurchase).  
Greenwashing examples: 
1.
The company falsely
claims that materials are
sustainable.
2.
The company only
communicates peripheral
sustainability projects
detached from core
operations.
3.
The company actively
withholds information 
about the sustainability
performance in the supply
chain. 
Company benefits for 
stakeholders
Key resources
Core activities
Strategic partnerships
Segments
Channels
Relationships
Private sector
stakeholders
Public sector
stakeholders
Civil society 
stakeholders
Economic value
Social value
Environmental value
⑥
①
②
③
④
⑤
④
Greenwashing examples:
7. The company deliberately ignores important
environmental impacts in their sustainability
reporting. 
Greenwashing examples:
8.  The company subscribes to sustainability
certifications and labels without changing
performance

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1009 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
TABLE 1: Case example: Greenwashing in the Fashion Industry 
 
As a high-profile, consumer goods sector with a significant environmental impact, the 
fashion industry has often been accused of greenwashing by non-governmental 
organisations, journalists, public agencies and community groups. Overall, the sector 
desperately needs to step up on the environmental agenda and make meaningful 
actions to meet with stakeholder demand (McKinsey, 2020, s. 52). However, as the field 
of sustainable fashion develops, brands also need to to be increasingly careful in their 
claims to sustainability (Butler, 2022).   
 When it comes to the value proposition, the very concept of sustainable fashion has 
been rejected by some stakeholders as an oxymoron, a contradiction in terms, and 
especially the fast fashion business model has been described as being in conflict with 
the concept of sustainability. Therefore, Greenpeace (among others) calls for the 
fashion industry to ”slow the flow”, and argues that fashion brands are ”hijacking 
circularity for greenwashing” and states that: ”small pilot projects and fancy circular 
”token” products, used mainly for marketing purposes or even greenwashing , are not 
enough and will not make a difference” (Greenpeace Germany, 2021, p. 24-25).  
Likewise, a Financial Times articles question the compataility between fast fashion and 
sustainability:  
 “If H&M really want to move towards a sustainable future, they kind of have to not 
exist. Or not in their current form, anyway. Clothing that is designed to be worn only a 
handful of times cannot be truly called “sustainable”, no matter how many times the 
material it’s made from has been recycled, or how little pesticide has been used on the 
cotton.” (https://ftalphaville.ft.com/2019/11/06/1573073449000/When-fast-fashion-
jumps-on-the-eco-wagon/)  
Looking at the business transformation system, fashion brands have often been 
criticized for lack of transparency regarding their supply chain and dubious claims about 
the sustainability of their products. For instance, a company like Canada Goose has 
been under attack for deceiving consumers about their fur and trapping methods 
(https://rabble.ca/environment/canada-gooses-greenwashing-marketing-strategy/). 
The fashion guide Good on You also accuses Lululemon for s misleading claims to 
sustainability. In their 2020 Impact Agenda Lululemon writes that: “We’ll adapt 
infrastructure to take back products after first use and recycle materials into a valuable 
next life, including fibre-to-fibre” (Lululemon, 2020, p. 31). However, Good On You 
highlights that this statement does not reflect any meaningful action and that 
Lululemom are silent about infrastructure they will be adapting, when it will happen, or 
what they consider to be a “valuable next life” (Rauturier, 2022).  
In terms of the customer interface, fashion brands have often been accused of making 
misleading sustainability claims directed towards the consumers. As an example, H&M 
was accused by the Norwegian Consumer Agency for misleading marketing of their 
“conscious collection” (https://www.nrk.no/troms/forbrukertilsynet-refser-h_m-for-
ulovlig-miljomarkedsforing-1.14578730 ). The company and the consumer agency later 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1010 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
reached agreement on how to communicate sustainability 
(https://melkoghonning.no/hm-refs-forbrukertilsynet/). Another company being 
accused of greenwashing is Zalando, Europe’s biggest online fashion marketplace and 
platform (Bundgaard, Vang and Hansen, 2022). To give customers eco-friendly options, 
Zalando has introduced a sustainable range of garments on its platform. However, 
Zalando has been critizised for its use of the sustainability label: “Calling a garment 
sustainable if 20% of it is made from recycled materials while the brand selling the piece 
is not showing any credible social or environmental efforts does not sit right with us.” 
(ASHIFT, 2021). The Danish publication Tænk also calls attention to the fact that of the 
25 sustainability certifications that Zalando uses, the online platform has created half of 
them itself. Professor Jannick Schmidt highlights that while fulfilling one criterion, e.g. 
using organic cotton, is not enough to make a product sustainable, it is also very 
problematic to invent your own sustainability labels (Sæhl, Kristensen and Andersen, 
2022).  
In terms of the finance and accounting system, the reporting of fashion brands 
sometimes lack transparency and disclose only partial information. For instance, a 
fashion company may communicate the amount of used clothes collected as part of a 
recycling, but remain silent about how much the recycled clothes compare to the total 
amount of clothes sold.  Moreover, the fashion brands may use questionable methods 
to measure the environmental impacts of their business activities. As an example, the 
company Allbirds was recently accused for greenwashing due to the use of 
questionable lifecycle assessment methodology 
(https://www.thefashionlaw.com/allbirds-is-the-latest-brand-facing-a-lawsuit-over-its-
sustainability-centric-advertising/) 
In terms of non-market stakeholder environment, fashion brands may oversell 
partnerships with public and private partners, even though these collaborative efforts 
do little to ensure the sustainability of their business activities. For instance, fashion 
brands may support organisations promoting living wages while operating their 
business in countries with minimum wages. Moreover, fashion brands have been 
accused of using third-party certification bodies, which fail to ensure the social and 
environmental performance in the supply chain. As an example, a garment supplier’s 
factory in Pakistan burned down shortly after a third-party audit, killing hundreds of 
workers. https://cleanclothes.org/news/2017/09/11/five-years-since-ali-enterprises-
fire-disaster-factories-in-pakistan-continue-to-be-unsafe  
 
From a business model perspective, greenwashing represents a deliberate misalignment between 
the communicated value proposition and the underlying building blocks of the business model. 
However, greenwashing organisations also raises interesting questions to the underlying 
assumptions about consistency and coherence which often characterises business model thinking. 
Idealtype business models often portray companies as having a coherent logic and a reasonable fit 
between the various building blocks. Attempts to formulate business model archetypes, typologies, 
configurations become more difficult, if the business models of most organistaions are imperfect, 
unbalanced, and broken.  However, this view may fail to reflect the complexity and messiness which 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1011 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
characterises real-life organisations. Greenwashing, as well as decoupling, hypocrisy, bullshit, 
aspirational talk and other concepts, share a view of organisations as less integrated and more 
fragmented than assumed in much business model literature. In practice, consistent business 
models may be the  exception rather than the rule. In the future, the business model literature 
could benefit from more studies into imperfect business models, which cover inconsistences 
between the various business model components.  
Concluding Remarks 
Greenwashing companies fail to perform on their promises regarding corporate sustainaiblity to 
their stakeholders. In this paper, we propose a new framework for categorizing talk-action 
disconnects regarding sustainability issues, which is based on the the various typologies of the 
business model literature. Where much research on greenwashing is rooted in the communication 
and marketing disciplines, we suggest in this paper that business model thinking also provide useful 
insights for understanding this type of organisational talk-action disconnects. Greenwashing can be 
seen as organisations with broken business models, which deliberately decouple different business 
model components. In general, the paper also calls attention to organisations with broken business 
models, which seem to be a common phenomenon in the context of corporate sustainability.  
Whether the talk-action disconnect is a deliberate attempt to mislead others (i.e. greenwashing) or 
a consequence of something else is an empirical question. However, the empirical question 
continue to be a key challenge for greenwashing research, which comes with a number of 
measurement difficulties (Hummel and Festl-Pell, 2015). A lot of empirical greenwashing research 
is retrospective and based on content analysis of corporate communication (Lyon and 
Montgomery, 2015, p. 231). Scholars in particular struggle with the deliberate component of 
greenwashing. Other concepts used to describe talk-action disconnects are more easily 
operationalized, as they do not require knowledge about the motivation between the talk-action 
disconnects. In the future, more research has to look into the practice of greenwashing even though 
this is not an easy endeavor, as greenwashing companies rarely provides access to the organisation.  
Future research on greenwashing also have to look into the organisational factors, which enable 
and constrain greenwashing practices. The scale of greenwashing itself also raises the fundamental 
question if the predominant business models we know today come with a propensity for over-
selling performance? After all, greenwashing is often a collective effort, which requires the 
involvement of multiple actors across functions, professions, and/or organisations. As an example, 
the Volkswagen emission scandal was not just the result of a scrupulous individual who 
singlehandedly plotted against the customers and the general public by manipulating the numbers 
(Higgins et al., 2020). Therefore, the widespread use of greenwashing is likely to be related to the 
current organization of business, e.g. the division of labour, resource infrastructures, customer 
interfaces, and management control systems. While the separation of business models into 
interdependent building blocks brings analytical clarity, they may also inadvertently draw attention 
to the silos of modern organisations, which hamper coordination, collaboration, and knowledge 
sharing. After all, greenwashing works best in organisations with impermeable boundaries, which 
obstruct faccess to reliable information about economic, social and environmental performance. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1012 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
References  
ASHIFT (2021). How sustainable is the online fashion platform Zalando really? ASHIFT. Retrieved 10.04.2022: 
https://ashift.eu/2021/06/17/how-sustainable-is-the-online-fashion-platform-zalando-really/  
Aurand, T. W., Finley, W., Krishnan, V., Sullivan, U. Y., Abresch, J., Bowen, J., Rackauskas, M., Thomas, R., & 
Willkomm, J. (2018). The VW Diesel Scandal: A Case of Corporate Commissioned Greenwashing. 
Journal of Organizational Psychology, 18(1). https://doi.org/10.33423/jop.v18i1.1313 
Berliner, D. and Prakash, A. (2015), “Bluewashing” the Firm? Voluntary Regulations, Program Design, and 
Member Compliance with the United Nations Global Compact. Policy Studies Journal, 43 (1): 115-
138. https://doi.org/10.1111/psj.12085 
Brunsson, N. (1989). The Organization of Hypocrisy: Talk, Decisions and Actions in Organizations. Second 
edition. Abstrakt Forlag, Oslo.  
Brunsson, N. (1993). Ideasa and Actions: Ideas and Actions: Justification and Hypocrisy as Alternatives to 
Control. Accounting, Organizations and Society, 18 (6), 489-506. 
Bundgaard, J., Vang, J.  and Hansen, D. (2022). Forskere angriber tøjgigant: Det går ikke at opfinde sine egne 
kriterier 
for 
bæredygtighed. 
Berlingske, 
17.04.2022. 
Retrieved 
10.04.2022: 
https://www.berlingske.dk/kronikker/forskere-angriber-toejgigant-det-gaar-ikke-at-opfinde-sine-
egne  
Butler, S. (2022). Dirty greenwashing: watchdog targets fashion brands over misleading claims. The Guardian. 
Retrieved 
10.04.2022 
from: 
https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/jan/14/dirty-
greenwashing-watchdog-targets-fashion-brands-over-misleading-claims  
Carlos, W.C., & Lewis, B.W. (2018). Strategic Silence: Withholding Certification Status as a Hypocrisy 
Avoidance Tactic. Administrative Science Quarterly, 63(1), 130-169. 
Cho, C.H., Laine, M., Roberts, R.W., & Rodgue, M. (2015). Organized Hypocrisy, Organizational Facades, and 
Sustainability Reporting. Accounting, Organizations and Society, 40, 78-94. 
Christensen, L.T., Morsing, M., and Thyssen, O. (2020). Timely Hypocrisy? Hypocrisy Temporalities in CSR 
Communication. 
Journal 
of 
Business 
Research, 
114, 
327-335. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2019.07.020 
Crilly, D., Hansen, M., & Zollo, M. (2016). The Grammar of Decoupling: A Cognitive-Linguistic Perspective on 
Firms’ Sustainability Claims and Stakeholders’ Interpretation. Academy of Management Journal, 
59(2), 705-729. 
Delmas M.A, & Burbano, V.C. (2011). The Drivers of Greenwashing. California Management Review, 54(1), 
64-87. doi:10.1525/cmr.2011.54.1.64 
EC (2021). Screening of websites for ‘greenwashing': half of green claims lack evidence, European Commission 
(EC), 
Press 
Release, 
Brussels, 
28 
January 
2021, 
https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_269 (Accessed, February 11, 2022). 
Ferrón-Vílchez, V., Valero-Gil, J., Suárez-Perales, I. (2021). How does greenwashing influence managers' 
decision-making? An experimental approach under stakeholder view. Corporate Social 
Responsibility and Environmental Management, 28, 860– 880. https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.2095 
Font, X., Elgammal, I. & Lamond, I. (2017). Greenhushing: The Deliberate Under Communicating of 
Sustainability Practices by Tourism Businesses, Journal of Sustainable Tourism, 25 (7), 1007-2023.  
Freudenreich, B., Lüdeke‑Freund, F., & Schaltegger, S. (2020). A Stakeholder Theory Perspective on Business 
Models: Value Creation for Sustainability. Journal of Business Ethics, 166,  3–18. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-019-04112-z 
Gacek, J. (2020). Corporate Greenwashing and Canada Goose: Exploring the Legitimacy–Aesthetic Nexus. 
International 
Journal 
for 
Crime, 
Justice 
and 
Social 
Democracy, 
9(4), 
148-162. 
https://doi.org/10.5204/ijcjsd.v9i2.1385  
Graafland, J. & Smid, H. (2019). Decoupling Among CSR Policies, Programs and Impacts: An Empirical Study. 
Business & Society, 58(2): 231-267. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1013 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Greenpeace Germany (2021). Self regulation: a fashion faitytale. Retrieved 10.04.2022 from: 
https://www.greenpeace.org/international/publication/50922/self-regulation-fashion-supply-
chain-fairytale/  
Hengst, I.-A., Jarzabkowski, P., Hoegl, M., & Muethel, M. (2020). Toward a Process Theory of Making 
Sustainability Strategies Legitimate in Action. Academy of Management Journal, 63 (1), 246-271. 
Heras-Saizarbitoria, I., Urbieta, L., & Boiral, O. (2022). Organizations' engagement with sustainable 
development goals: From cherry-picking to SDG-washing? Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Environmental Management, 29( 2), 316– 328. https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.2202 
Higgins, C., Tang, S., & Stubbs, W. (2020). On Managing Hypocrisy: The Transparency of Sustainability Reports. 
Journal of Business Research, 114, 395-407. 
Hironaka, A., & Schofer, E. (2002). Decoupling in the Environmental Arena: The Case of Environmental Impact 
Assessments, p. 214-231 in Hoffman, A.J., & Ventresca, M.J. (Eds.). Organizations, Policy and the 
Natural Environment: Institutional and Strategic Perspectives, Stanford University Press, Stanford, 
California. 
Hoon, C. (2013). Meta-Synthesis of Qualitative Case Studies: An Approach to Theory Building, Organizational 
Research Methods, 16(4) 522-556. 
Hummel, K. & Festl-Pell, D. (2015). Much Ado About Nothing? Sustainability Disclosure in the Banking 
Industry. Zeitschrift für Wirtschafts- und Unternehmensethik - Journal for Business, Economics & 
Ethics, 16(3), 369-393. 
Johnson, M. W., Christensen, C. M., & Kagermann, H. (2008). Reinventing your business model. Harvard 
Business Review, 86(12), 50-59. 
Joyce, A. & Paquin, R.L. (2016). The triple layered business model canvas: A tool to design more sustainable 
business 
models, 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
135, 
1474-1486, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.06.067 
Kassinis, G. & Panayiotou, A. (2018). Visuality as Greenwashing: The Case of BP and Deepwater Horizon. 
Organization & Environment, 31(1), 25-47.  
Kim, E.-H. & Lyon, T.P. (2015). Greenwash vs Brownwash: Exaggeration and Undue Modesty in Corporate 
Sustainability Disclosure. Organization Science, 26(3), 705-723. 
Lane, E. (2016). Volkswagen and the High-tech Greenwash. European Journal of Risk Regulation, 7(1), 32-34. 
doi:10.1017/S1867299X00005341 
Lululemon 
(2020). 
Lululemon 
2020 
Impact 
Agenda. 
Retrieved 
10.04.2022 
from: 
https://corporate.lululemon.com/~/media/Files/L/Lululemon/our-impact/2020-impact-agenda.pdf   
Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2009). Business Model Concepts in Corporate Sustainability Contexts: From Rhetoric to a 
Generic Template for "Business Models for Sustainability". Centre for Sustainability Management. 
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1544847 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., & Massa, L. (2018). The Sustainable Business Model Pattern 
Taxonomy – 45 Patterns to Support Sustainability-Oriented Business Model Innovation. Sustainable 
Production and Consumption, 15, 145-162. 
Lyon T.P, & Montgomery, A.W. (2015). The Means and End of Greenwash. Organization & Environment, 28(2): 
223-249. doi:10.1177/1086026615575332 
Marguis, C., Toffel, M.W., Zhou, Y. (2016). Scrutiny, Norms, and Selective Disclosure: A Global Study of 
Greenwashing. Organization Science, 27(2), 483-504. 
McKinsey (2020).The State of Fashion 2020. The Business of Fashion (BOF) and McKinsey & Company. 
https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/Industries/Retail/Our%20Insights/The%20state%2
0of%20fashion%202020%20Navigating%20uncertainty/The-State-of-Fashion-2020-final.ashx     
Osterwalder, A., & Pigneur, Y. (2010). Business model generation: A handbook for visionaries, game changers, 
and challengers. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley. 
Pedersen, E.R. (2006). Between Hopes and Realities: Reflections on the Promises and Practices of Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR). PhD Thesis. PhD Series 17.2006. PHD School of Technologies of Managing 
CBS/ Copenhagen Business School.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1014 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Pedersen, E.R.G., Gwozdz, W. & Hvass, K.K. (2018). Exploring the Relationship Between Business Model 
Innovation, Corporate Sustainability, and Organisational Values within the Fashion Industry. Journal 
of Business Ethics, 149, 267–284 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-016-3044-7 
Pizzetti, M., Gatti, L., & Seele, P. (2021): Firms Talk, Suppliers Walk Analyzing the Locus of Greenwashing in 
the Blame Game and Introducing ‘Vicarious Greenwashing. Journal of Business Ethics, 170, 21-38, 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-019-04406-2  
Pope, S. & Wæraas, A. (2016). CSR-Washing is Rare: A Conceptual Framework, Literature Review, and 
Critique. Journal of Business Ethics, 137 (1), 173-193. 
Rauturier, S. (2022). Greenwashing examples: 8 notorious fast fashion claims and campaigns. Good On You, 
In the Know. Retrieved 10.04.2022 from: https://goodonyou.eco/greenwashing-examples/  
Seele, P. & Gatti, L. (2017). Greenwashing Revisited: In Search of a Typology and Accusation-Based Definition 
Incorporating Legitimacy Strategies. Business Strategy and the Environment, 26, 239-252. 
Siano, A., Vollero, A., Conte, F., & Amabile, S. (2017). ”More than words”: Expanding the Taxonomy of 
Greenwashing after the Volkswagen Scandal. Journal of Business Research, 71, 27-37. 
Stål, H.I. & Corvellec, H. (2021). Organizing Mean-Ends Decoupling: Core-Compartment Separations in Fast 
Fashion. Business & Society, 1-29. Online First 
Sæhl, M., Kristensen, P. K. and Andersen, K. S. (2022). Zalando reklamerere med bæredygtighed – trods 
forbrugervagthundens 
løftede 
pegefinger. 
DR, 
Klima. 
Retrieved 
10.04.2022: 
https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/viden/klima/zalando-reklamerer-med-baeredygtighed-trods-
forbrugervagthundens-loeftede 
Zharfpeykan, R. (2021). Representative account or greenwashing? Voluntary sustainability reports in 
Australia's mining/metals and financial services industries. Business Strategy and the Environment, 
30, 2209– 2223. https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2744  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1015 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Pattern cards to foster analogical 
reasoning in business model 
innovation 
 
Martin Ebel1,* Tomas Santa-Maria2,3, Gert Breitfuss2  
1Ruhr-Universität Bochum; 2Know-Center GmbH; 3University of Graz 
*martin.ebel@isse.rub.de  
Abstract 
Business model patterns are a common tool in business model design. We provide a theoretical 
foundation for their use within the framework of analogical reasoning as an important cognitive 
skill for business model innovation. Based on 12 innovation workshops with students and 
practitioners, we discuss scenarios of pattern card utilization and provide insights on its evaluation. 
Keywords  
business model pattern, design fixation, analogical reasoning, business model design, capabilities 
Introduction 
Companies are faced with the complex challenge of managing phases of uncertainty that arise 
today as a result of digitalization, unexpected events, or changing value paradigms in society. In 
addition to economic growth, the social and environmental impacts of a corporation are 
increasingly at stake. This often means that the entire business logic has to be transformed and 
companies have to try to redesign their business models. In theory, it is assumed that, in addition 
to exogenous shocks, active design, based on existing knowledge, plays an important role in this 
process (Martins et al., 2015). Here, business model patterns should facilitate the transfer from 
other domains and industries (Gassmann et al., 2014, Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018). Nonetheless, 
design by analogy can lead to design fixation which might diminish creativity (Moreno et al. 2018). 
This brings us to our research question:  
RQ. How is the use of patterns in business model innovation to be theoretically and empirically 
justified? 
To answer this research question, first, the related work section provides a theoretical justification 
for the usage of patterns as analogies within business model innovation (BMI) process. In a second 
step, the methodological approach is presented, describing the exploration of the usage of patterns 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1016 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
within three real-world BMI projects. Then, we present the initial empirical insights of our research, 
before the conclusion and a future research outlook are provided.  
Related Work 
Business model design 
A business model represents the rationale of how an organization creates, delivers, and captures 
value (Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010). As Zott and Amit (2010) propose, the design of a business 
model is a “key managerial/entrepreneurial task”. The task can be separated into diverse design 
elements, which are operationalized on different granularity levels. From a design science 
perspective, the elements of a business model can be separated into interconnected building blocks 
(Osterwalder, 2004) (e.g., value proposition, customer segment, revenue models, partner, key 
resources). In addition, research in recent years has crystallized a consensus on three overarching 
fundamental pillars of a business model. These include value proposition, value creation, and value 
capture (Bocken et al., 2014).  
Ultimately, companies try to differentiate themselves in the market by innovating their business 
model which is accompanied by a reconfiguration of named business model elements (Amit & Zott, 
2012). Design decisions can be used to adopt innovative design elements, retain customers, bundle 
activities or reduce transaction costs (Zott & Amit 2010). A modularity perspective might enable an 
effective and efficient approach to business model design and innovation (Aversa, 2015). Basic 
elements of the business model are hereby modified and reconfigured by operators just as splitting 
of business model elements (e.g. value proposition) by identifying new products and services. The 
adoption of known business model elements is seen as a key capability of individuals on the micro-
level within business model innovation (Loon et al., 2020) (Figure 1). 
 
Figure 1: Analogical reasoning as a key capability in business model innovation (Loon et al., 2020) 
Analogical reasoning in BMI and possible design fixation 
Organisational
Ambidexterity
Organisational
Learning
Dynamic 
Capabilities
Sensemaking
Analogical 
Reasoning
Genesis
Transformation
Continuity
Micro
Meso
Organizational Level
BMI Stages

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1017 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Managers involved in business model innovation face a series of cognitive barriers during the 
innovation process (Frankenberger et al., 2013; Täuscher and Abdelkafi, 2016). Managers should 
aim to generate several creative ideas outside of the dominant logic, thinking “out of the box”. The 
cognitive ability of analogical reasoning is hereby seen as a crucial capability on the individual level 
within new (i.e., new to market and industry) business model design (Loon et al., 2020). Analogical 
reasoning is understood ”as the application of structured knowledge from a familiar domain to a 
novel domain” (Martins et al., 2015). Early on, cognitive psychology demonstrated that solutions to 
problems can emerge using examples from different domains. For example, Gick and Holyoak 
(1980) demonstrated the influence of stories from military operations as a means for analogical 
problem-solving in the medical field. Following Yilmaz et al. (2016) analogies lead to a more 
thorough and extensive search of solutions in a solution space that is not limited to obvious 
solutions (Figure 2).  
 
Figure 2: Possible solution space (I), typical path in ideation (II) and suggested impact of analogies 
(III) (Daly et al., 2016) 
However, maladaptive “defence mechanisms” can emerge (Bovey & Hede, 2001), filtering 
information that is not aligned with the dominant business logic (Chesbrough, 2010). This 
phenomenon is directly related to the cognitive barrier of “design fixation”, which occurs when the 
“exploration of the solution space is unintentionally constrained by designers’ knowledge of prior 
solutions” (Crilly, 2018, p. 52). Design research has studied the use of analogies during ideation to 
reduce design fixation. Despite the potential danger of being stuck with known solutions, design by 
analogy has proven to be effective to generate novel and high-quality ideas (Moreno et al., 2016). 
In the domain of business model design, the research on this topic is in its infancy. 
Business Model Patterns 
Business model patterns have been popularized in traditional management fields thanks to 
Osterwalder & Pigneur (2010) and Gassmann et al. (2014), and have been explored prominently in 
the field of sustainable business models (Bocken et al., 2014; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018). 
Patterns deliver “insights into design problems, capturing the essence of recurring problems and 
their solutions in a compact form” (Chung et al., 2004, S. 233) and have already proven to be 
efficient and valuable for systematic innovation (Bocken et al., 2014; Lüdeke‐Freund et al., 2019; 
Ebel et al. 2022). Following Lüdeke-Freund et al. (2018), pattern classification is useful in a variety 
of dimensions (e.g., storing information, simplifying cognition, providing a basis for midrange 
theory, inspiring creativity, and guiding practitioners). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1018 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Business model patterns classifications have been transferred into cards by several authors (e.g. 
Gassmann et al., 2014), to facilitate the conceptualization of novel business model configurations 
in workshop settings with practitioners (Figure 3).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Pattern cards for use in workshops (e.g., Yilmaz et al., 2016; BMI Lab, 2022; Ebel et al., 
2022; Breitfuss et al., 2020; Santa-Maria et al., 2021) 
Method 
To explore the use of patterns within business model innovation activities we have applied a 
multiple case study approach and used patterns within different workshop scenarios (Yin, 2014, 
Bocken et al., 2015). Hereby student groups, as well as practitioners, participated (see Table 1). We 
analyzed the results of three independent business model innovation workshop designs that apply 
three different sets of pattern cards to support analogical reasoning within an ideation activity. 
Each of the three authors has been independently involved in the design, testing and refinement of 
a set of pattern cards and has facilitated the workshops considered in the study. In total 12 online 
workshops, involving 166 participants divided into 28 groups were considered for this research (see 
Table 1). 
The first case considers the use of 7 circular business model pattern cards to support the ideation 
of novel circular business models, within the “Circular Sprint” design thinking-based innovation 
process (Santa-Maria et al., 2021). The second case considers the use of 12 smart service pattern 
cards to support the ideation of value propositions within the “Pattern-Based Smart Service 
Innovation method” (Ebel et al. 2022). The third case considers the application of 55 “Data Service 
Cards” (Breitfuss et al., 2020) to facilitate the process of developing data-driven service ideas, use 
cases or business models. The 55 cards are grouped into 5 main categories, each describing a key 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1019 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
element of a data-driven business model (i.e., Data Sources, Data Analytics, Data Service, Benefit, 
and Revenue Models). 
 
 
Table 1: Case and workshop descriptions 
Case 
Pattern 
usage 
ID Workshop setting 
Goal 
Participants profile 
Ideati
on 
activi
ty  
Partici
pants 
count 
Grou
ps 
coun
t 
1 
Ideation 
support
ed by 7 
circular 
business 
model 
pattern 
cards 
A 
Academic 
conference  
Improve 
the 
sustainability impacts of 
urban mobility in the city 
of Graz using circular 
patterns 
15 researchers, 5 private sector 
practitioners, 2 public sector 
representatives and 1 non-
profit employee 
30 
min 
24 
5 
B 
Master 
students 
course  
Improve circularity and 
sustainability of 4 real 
case studies 
Students of Master Circulaire 
Economie, HAN University of 
Applied Sciences, Netherlands 
25 
min 
29 
4 
C 
Master 
students 
course  
Improve circularity and 
sustainability 
of 
3 
circular business model 
case studies 
Master students in the course 
Sustainable Business Models, 
University of Graz, Austria 
20 
min 
20 
3 
D 
Workshop with a 
Start-up 
Develop 
a 
business 
model based on a waste-
to-bioplastic technology 
CEO, trainee, advisor, mentor 
40 
min 
4 
1 
E 
Workshop within a 
corporate project  
Develop 
a 
business 
model based on EVB 
second-life technologies 
Representatives of 5 project 
partners (4 private companies 
and 1 public agency) 
45 
min 
8 
1 
2 
Ideation 
support
ed by 12 
smart 
service 
pattern 
cards 
F 
Workshop with SME 
in manufacturing  
Customer-centric smart 
service innovation 
Teamlead 
R&D, 
Senior 
Developer, 
Lead 
Product 
Management, 
Product 
Manager, Innovation Manager, 
Service Manager 
30-40 
min 
6 
1 
G 
Workshop with SME 
in manufacturing 
Customer-centric smart 
service innovation 
Consultant, Project Manager, 
Technical Director, After-Sales 
Manager, Project Lead, Sales 
Representative 
30-40 
min 
6 
1 
H 
Workshop with SME 
in manufacturing 
Customer-centric smart 
service innovation 
Service 
Manager, 
Product 
Manager, Customer Interaction 
Manager 
30-40 
min 
3 
1 
3 
Ideation 
support
ed by 55 
data 
service 
cards 
I 
Workshop within a 
collaborative 
research project 
Development of data-
driven use cases 
6 researchers, 2 consulter 
90 
min 
8 
1 
J 
Master 
students 
course (automation 
engineering) 
Development of data-
driven use cases 
32 
part-time 
students, 
all 
participants 
are 
full 
time 
employed in various industry 
companies 
150m
in 
32 
5 
K 
Master 
students 
course 
(business 
admin.) 
Development of data-
driven use cases 
16 full-time students 
120 
min 
16 
4 
L 
Workshop within a 
collaborative 
research project 
Development of data-
driven use cases 
8 
researchers, 
2 
SME 
employees 
120 
min 
10 
1 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1020 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The ideas generated in each of the ideation activities were documented and analyzed, to explore 
the study workshop output. In addition, a feedback survey with open-ended qualitative questions 
(Case 1 & 3) or interviews (Case 2) was conducted with participants. The present research-in-
process manuscript considers an initial content analysis of the qualitative data from the surveys. 
 
Results 
Different approaches to using patterns within business model innovation 
Three distinct methods of applying pattern cards to support ideation activities were identified, 
which have implications for the activity outputs. The descriptions follow. 
In the first case, within a broader workshop that at least considered an introduction to circular 
economy business models and a problem exploration and re-definition phase, the ideation activity 
consisted of 30 to 45 minutes of brainstorming supported by the seven circular business model 
pattern cards. After 10-15 minutes of individual silent brainwriting, an open discussion to build and 
expand on each other's ideas followed, closed by clustering and then voting activity. The use of the 
patterns was not enforced, only suggested for inspiration.   
In the second case, after an exploration phase to capture a customer's problem, the twelve smart 
service pattern cards were used to generate ideas. In the workshop, which was accompanied by a 
video meeting and a virtual whiteboard, the sample cards were first briefly presented to all 
participants. After that, the participants were each assigned 4 of the 12 pattern cards. The activity 
started with 7 minutes of silent brainwriting to generate as many ideas for new service concepts as 
possible with the help of the four assigned patterns. After a first round, participants briefly 
presented their ideas to the group. In a second round, the participants were then allowed to build 
on the ideas presented to them from the first round and were asked to generate further ideas in a 
second ideation round. In a final step, the ideas generated were discussed and clustered. 
In the third case, the 55 data service cards were applied. At the beginning of the workshop, the 
card-set were introduced by explaining the characteristics of the cards and the main categories via 
an online whiteboard tool. In the workshop participants were divided into sub-groups (4-6 
participants) and had to complete two tasks. First, the participants were asked to reconstruct and 
extend a well-known data service (e.g., Netflix) using the cards. In the second task, the participants 
developed new data-driven service ideas for a fictitious company. Finally, the participants 
presented their ideas and results. 
 
Evaluation results on pattern usage 
The most relevant insights from the initial qualitative analysis of the feedback surveys and 
interviews, including exemplary quotes, follow.  
First and foremost, our analysis shows that, overall, pattern usage in business model design has a 
positive contribution to creativity. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1021 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
“I find this tool very helpful, especially if you have no experience in this area.” (Case 3) 
“The whole process of brainstorming and implementation is not only made easier but also more 
exciting.” (Case 3) 
However, the risk of idea fixation and possible restrictions on creativity was mentioned by some 
participants after using the patterns. 
“It was useful to get a first idea on possibilities, but it's very easy to keep hanging on to those ideas 
instead of getting more creative. “(Case 1) 
“Especially with inexperienced users, I can imagine that creativity could be somewhat restricted 
[...] by only searching within the proposed solutions.” (Case 3) 
As noted by some participants, time constraints seemed to particularly discourage them from using 
patterns. 
“Cards are inspiring, but I would say that they [...] were just additional information that could not 
really be used due to the limited time.” (Case 1) 
Concerning time constraints, a clear allocation of a subset of patterns, or enough time to prepare 
participants can improve outcomes. 
“That everyone focused on one group [of pattern cards] and not everyone kind of ran off in the 
same direction. That was quite helpful.” (Case 2) 
With regards to the presentation of the cards, it became apparent that participants used patterns 
differently. Especially the title, visualizations, explanation text and relevant practical examples 
seemed helpful. 
“The title already gave me such an impulse and in combination with the examples it was actually 
enough for me. I didn't read the complete text in the workshop.” (Case 2) 
Outlook and Conclusion 
By comparing the cases, it was found that patterns can be used in various ways. On the one hand, 
they can be presented as a rather open and possibly subtle source of inspiration, to stimulate 
divergent thinking. On the other hand, they can be used to actively encourage participants to use 
patterns to systematically generate modular solutions, through convergent thinking. Furthermore, 
the third case shows that patterns can be used both ways, boosting ideas and structuring ideas into 
concrete use cases. In Table 2 the different approaches are shown. It is important to add that there 
is no evidence yet on which approach is most helpful, nor whether these approaches can be 
combined. 
Table 2: Three approaches to applying pattern cards to support analogical reasoning in an 
ideation activity 
Approach 
Description 
Questions occurring 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1022 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Suggested usage 
Pattern cards are just seen as 
a possible means that can be 
used for ideation purposes. 
How to investigate the effect 
of the patterns? 
Prescribed usage 
Participants are expected to 
develop ideas using specific 
pattern cards. 
Is a possible design fixation 
more likely? 
Process model 
Pattern cards follow a 
complementary logic that also 
proposes a procedural 
application. 
How to separate the effects of 
the process and the patterns? 
Despite the approach used, the evaluations showed that participants perceived patterns as useful 
and easy to use. The cards allowed not only to “copy and adapt” patterns into the respective 
context but to allow new ideas to emerge, not necessarily associated with the patterns. Our 
empirical results support that patterns stimulate the cognitive process of analogical reasoning 
within idea generation in a predominantly positive way. Very few participants expressed concerns 
about design fixation or creativity restrictions. However, based on the initial results, this can only 
be formulated as a hypothesis that needs to be tested in future projects. 
H1: Business model patterns support to a high degree the process of analogical reasoning and hardly 
lead to design fixation. 
As a first theoretical implication, we argue that analogical reasoning is a relevant cognitive skill for 
business model innovation and can be applied through the use of business model patterns. Here, 
we have critically reflected on why it can be useful to structure knowledge in the form of pattern 
cards, and how this knowledge can be applied to support ideation in workshops, despite possible 
design fixation. In this way, business model patterns were given a further theoretical foundation, 
which until now has often only been anecdotal and based on practical experience. 
As a second theoretical implication, our case study sheds light on the different understandings of 
business model patterns. Even if participants of mentioned workshops considered patterns as 
helpful, it was difficult to compare insights between cases. A clear delimitation and description, or 
even classification, of business model patterns, may be needed to make this possible. Leitner's 
pattern theory (2015) could help here, for example.  As Abdelkafi (2013) has already pointed out, 
patterns can take on different levels of granularity in the context of business model innovation, and 
the number of patterns can quickly become confusing (Remane, 2017; Weking, 2018). In addition, 
it should be clarified to what extent their use and approach differ by domain. 
Concerning  possible design fixation, we discussed empirical findings from related, though not 
directly comparable, workshop settings. Through the three case studies, it became clear that 
patterns can be used very differently in the business model design process and that patterns 
themselves can also be understood differently. To be able to make more valid statements about 
possible advantages and disadvantages (i.e., about possible design fixation), there is a lack of 
studies that attempt to answer precisely this question for business model patterns. Even though 
we could only marginally contribute to this question, it offers the opportunity to address the 
question in future work and to further test our hypothesis. Therefore we look forward to rigorous 
experimental studies within the field of pattern cards. Interesting open research questions may 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1023 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
relate to the field of optimal processes to use pattern cards, influence on novice as well as 
experienced innovators and different ways of presenting and structuring pattern cards.  
As a practical implication, we conclude that the use of business models patterns cards in workshop 
settings can be seen as helpful for business model design, especially when knowledge within the 
domain is rare. Nonetheless, patterns should only be seen as stimuli for new ideas. Their use should 
not lead to a false sense of confidence that business models developed with the help of patterns 
are undoubtedly desirable, feasible, and viable in the particular context of a specific organization. 
References  
Abdelkafi, Nizar, Sergiy Makhotin, and Thorsten Posselt. (2013) „Business Model Innovations for Electric 
Mobility—What Can Be Learned from Existing Business Model Patterns?“ International Journal of 
Innovation Management 17, https://doi.org/10.1142/S1363919613400033. 
Amit, Raphael, and Christoph Zott. (2012) Creating value through business model innovation 
Aversa, Paolo, Stefan Haefliger, Alessandro Rossi, and Charles Baden-Fuller. (2015) From Business Model to 
Business Modelling: Modularity and Manipulation. In Advances in Strategic Management, 33:151–
85. Emerald Group Publishing Limited. https://doi.org/10.1108/S0742-332220150000033022. 
BMI 
Lab 
(2022), 
 
55+ 
Business 
Model 
Pattern 
Cards 
Available 
from: 
https://bmi-lab-
shop.myshopify.com/products/the-business-model-innovation-pattern-cards [Accessed 8th April 
2022] 
Bocken, N. et al. (2014) ‘A literature and practice review to develop sustainable business model archetypes’, 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 65, pp. 42–56. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.039. 
Bocken, N. et al. (2016) ‘Product design and business model strategies for a circular economy’, Journal of 
Industrial and Production Engineering, 33(5), pp. 308–320. doi: 10.1080/21681015.2016.1172124. 
Bocken, N.M.P., P. Rana, and S.W. Short (2015) „Value Mapping for Sustainable Business Thinking“. Journal 
of 
Industrial 
and 
Production 
Engineering 
32: 
67–81. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/21681015.2014.1000399. 
Bovey, W. H. and Hede, A. (2001) ‘Resistance to organisational change: The role of defence mechanisms’, 
Journal of Managerial Psychology, 16(7), pp. 534–548. doi: 10.1108/EUM0000000006166. 
Breitfuss, G., Fruhwirth, M., Wolf-Brenner, C., Riedl, A., de Reuver, M., Ginthoer, R. Pimas, O. (2020) Data 
Service Cards. A Supporting Tool for Data-Driven Business. In: 33rd Bled eConference Enabling 
Technology for a Sustainable Society. June 28-29 2020. University of Maribor, pp. 599–614. 
Crilly, N. (2018) “Fixation” and “the pivot”: balancing persistence with flexibility in design and 
entrepreneurship’, International Journal of Design Creativity and Innovation, 6(1–2), pp. 52–65. doi: 
10.1080/21650349.2017.1362359. 
Daly, Shanna R, James L Christian, Seda Yilmaz, Colleen M Seifert, and Richard Gonzalez.(2012) „Assessing 
Design Heuristics for Idea Generation in an Introductory Engineering Course“. Industrial Design 
Publications, 
Ebel, Martin, David Jaspert, and Jens Poeppelbuss.(2022) „Smart Already at Design Time – Pattern-Based 
Smart 
Service 
Innovation 
in 
Manufacturing“. 
Computers 
in 
Industry 
138: 
103625. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compind.2022.103625. 
Gassmann, O., Frankenberger, K. and Csik, M. (2014) The business model navigator: 55 models that will 
revolutionise your business. Pearson UK. 
Gick, M. L., and J. Holyoak. (1980) „Analogical Problem Solving“. Cognitive Psychology, 50. 
Hansen, E. G., Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Fichter, K. (2020) Circular Business Model Typology: Actor, Circular 
Strategy, and Service Level. 
Leitner, Helmut. (2015) Pattern theory: introduction and perspectives on the tracks of Christopher Alexander. 
HLS Software. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1024 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Lewandowski, M. (2016) ‘Designing the business models for circular economy-towards the conceptual 
framework’, Sustainability (Switzerland), 8(1), pp. 1–28. doi: 10.3390/su8010043. 
Loon, Mark, Lilian Otaye‐Ebede, and Jim Stewart. (2020) Thriving in the New Normal: The HR 
Microfoundations of Capabilities for Business Model Innovation. An Integrated Literature Review. 
Journal of Management Studies 57, https://doi.org/10.1111/joms.12564. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. et al. (2018) ‘The sustainable business model pattern taxonomy—45 patterns to support 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation’, Sustainable Production and Consumption, 15, 
pp. 145–162. doi: 10.1016/j.spc.2018.06.004. 
Lüdeke‐Freund, F., Gold, S. and Bocken, N. (2019) ‘A Review and Typology of Circular Economy Business 
Model Patterns’, Journal of Industrial Ecology, 23(1), pp. 36–61. doi: 10.1111/jiec.12763. 
Martins, Luis L., Violina P. Rindova, and Bruce E. Greenbaum (2015) „Unlocking the Hidden Value of Concepts: 
A Cognitive Approach to Business Model Innovation“. Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal 9: 99–117. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/sej.1191. 
Mentink, B. (2014) Circular Business Model Innovation: A process framework and a tool for business model 
innovation in a circular economy. Delft University of Technology. 
Moreno, Diana P., Luciënne T. Blessing, Maria C. Yang, Alberto A. Hernández, and Kristin L. Wood (2016) 
„Overcoming design fixation: Design by analogy studies and nonintuitive findings“. Artificial 
Intelligence 
for 
Engineering 
Design, 
Analysis 
and 
Manufacturing 
30, 
 
185–99. 
https://doi.org/10.1017/S0890060416000068. 
Osterwalder, A. (2004) The Business Model Ontology - A Proposition in a Design Science Approach. Université 
de Lausanne. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-9310.2010.00605.x. 
Osterwalder, A. and Pigneur, Y. (2010) Business Model Generation A Handbook for Visionaries, Game 
Changers, and Challengers. Hoboken, NJ, USA: John Wiley and Sona. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0307-
10.2010. 
Remane, Gerrit, Andre Hanelt, Jan F. Tesch, and Lutz M. Kolbe.(2017) „The Business Model Pattern 
Database—a Tool for Systematic Business Model Innovation“. International Journal of Innovation 
Management 21, Nr. 01: 1750004. https://doi.org/10.1142/S1363919617500049. 
Santa-Maria, T., Vermeulen, W. J. V. and Baumgartner, R. J. (2021) ‘Embedding Circular Economy and Business 
Model Innovation into Design Thinking’, in Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on New 
Business Models. Halmstad, Sweden, June 2021, pp. 364–371. 
Täuscher, K. and Abdelkafi, N. (2017) ‘Visual tools for business model innovation: Recommendations from a 
cognitive perspective’, Creativity and Innovation Management, 26(2), pp. 160–174. doi: 
10.1111/caim.12208. 
Weking, Jörg, Andreas Hein, Markus Böhm, and Helmut Krcmar.(2018) „A Hierarchical Taxonomy of Business 
Model Patterns“. Electronic Markets, https://doi.org/10.1007/s12525-018-0322-5. 
Yilmaz, Seda, Shanna R. Daly, Colleen M. Seifert, and Richard Gonzalez. (2016) „Evidence-Based Design 
Heuristics for Idea Generation“. Design Studies 46. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.destud.2016.05.001. 
Yin, R. K. (2014) Case Study Research: Design and Methods. Fifth Ed. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publication, 
Inc. 
Zott, C. and Amit, R. (2010) ‘Business model design: An activity system perspective’, Long Range Planning, 
43(2–3), pp. 216–226. doi: 10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.004. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1025 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
A business model innovation tool to 
explore opportunities for 
sustainability 
 
Dorleta Ibarra1,* Ane Miren Valenciano1, Juan Ignacio Igartua1  
1Mondragon Unibertsitatea, Faculty of Engineering, Mechanics and 
Industrial Production, Loramendi 4, Mondragon 20500 Gipuzkoa, 
Spain 
*dibarra@mondragon.edu 
Abstract 
Digital transformation, climate change and the recent Covid-19 pandemic crisis have heightened 
the awareness of companies, academics, and policy makers on the need to explore and exploit 
more sustainable forms of value creation, delivery, and capture. However, innovating business 
models is not a simple task, as every company approaches the challenge from different maturity 
levels and approaches. In response, researchers have recently highlighted the importance of 
business model innovation tools. 
Moreover, business model innovation is very much subject to the regional and competitive context 
in which the firm is situated. Regional priorities and policies, as well as the networks and support 
for innovation that the company has in its area of activity, are key to fostering this transformation. 
Thus, it is essential to develop tools that support business model innovation from a sectoral and 
regional perspective, taking as a reference the competitive reality of a territory, as well as its public 
policies. 
Building upon the Alexandrian pattern theory and following the Research Design Methodology that 
comprises a systematic literature review and a multidimensional scaling analysis of a sample of 216 
companies, this document presents a tool that can help organisations and policy makers to assess 
and explore 28 business model patterns documented from the sectoral needs and strategic 
priorities of a region. 
Keywords 
Business model, innovation, tool, business model patterns, sustainability 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1026 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Introduction 
Today's competitive environment requires incumbent firms to strategically adapt their business 
models (BMs) to meet emerging challenges while maintaining a sustainable competitive advantage 
(Peñarroya-Farell and Miralles, 2021). Digital transformation, climate change and the recent Covid-
19 pandemic crisis have heightened the awareness of companies and policy makers on the need to 
explore and exploit more sustainable forms of value creation, delivery, and capture. To address 
these challenges, researchers have recently highlighted the importance of business model 
innovation tools (BMITs) (Bocken et al., 2019; Pieroni et al., 2021). BMITs cover a wide range of 
methods, frameworks, or templates that serve different purposes within the business model 
innovation (BMI) process, such as exploration, analysis, ideation, design and evaluation (Bouwman 
et al., 2020; Massa et al., 2017). Among the different approaches and tools existing today, BM 
patterns seem to be key elements of the BMI process (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018, 2019; Pieroni et 
al., 2021; Remane et al., 2017). 
Building upon the Alexandrian pattern theory (Alexander, 1977), BM patterns are described as 
BMITs for identifying, classifying and documenting problem-solution mechanisms or best practices 
(Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018, 2019; Pieroni et al., 2021; Remane et al., 2017). BM patterns allow 
organisations to be inspired by successful business cases, which can help them to challenge the 
current dominant logic and help them to understand and learn from existing solutions, serving as 
analogies for creative imitation (Gassmann et al., 2020; Remane et al., 2017). Therefore, BM 
patterns are considered to support strategic decisions, reflective governance and innovation 
activities within organisations (Sarasini and Linder, 2018). 
Despite progress in BMIT development, existing approaches are still general, conceptual and offer 
a limited practical application (Bocken et al., 2019; Pieroni et al., 2021). Moreover, companies still 
struggle to think in terms of BMs rather than technologies, products or processes (Frankenberger 
et al., 2013). Furthermore, BMI is very much subject to the regional and competitive context in 
which the firm is located. Regional priorities and policies, as well as the networks and support for 
innovation that the company has in its area of activity, are key to fostering this transformation. 
Therefore, easy to use BMITs that support companies in decision-making and configuration of BMs 
for specific sectorial and regional challenges are still required (Pieroni et al., 2021). 
As part of an ongoing research, this short paper, responds to the call for "knowledge for action" 
(Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2019, p. 29), applying the BM pattern language to develop a practical BMIT. 
The tool seeks to guide companies in the assessment and exploration of BMI opportunities aligned 
with the strategic priorities of a specific region, through the characterisation of current and 
potential business models that can be economically-, socially-, environmentally-oriented or some 
combination of the three aspects. In the following lines, the method followed to define, develop, 
and test the BMIT, and the preliminary results of the research are presented. 
Method 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1027 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
In line with other studies on sustainable BMITs, this ongoing research has adopted the Design 
Research Methodology (Blessing and Chakrabarti, 2009; Pieroni et al., 2021). The following lines 
describe the four stages (Figure 1) that comprise the method: 
1. Criteria definition: Defines the research objective and the measurement criteria 
The aim of the research project is to develop a BMIT that guides companies towards BMI for 
sustainability. The BMIT should allow companies to discover and implement sustainability 
opportunities to innovate their BMs according to  the strategic priorities of an European region 
(Gipuzkoa, Basque Country). Based on the Regional Innovation Smart Specialization Strategy of the 
Basque Country and the Strategic Plan of Gipuzkoa, sustainability opportunities (economically-, 
socially- and/or environmentally-oriented) opportunities are explored based on six strategic areas: 
Competitive Strengthening, Smart Industry, Resilience to Covid-19, Digitalisation, Servitisation and 
Circular Economy. 
The BMIT should meet the following criteria: 1) Enable the self-assessment of organisation’s BMs, 
2) visualise current and potential BM patterns of different sectors in different strategic areas, 3) 
describe the innovative potential of each pattern, its impacts, and challenges, and 4) show the 
interrelationships between different BM patterns to help companies establish pathways towards 
BMI. 
2. Descriptive Study I: Establishes the requirements for the development of the BMIT. 
First, the methodology for designing a self-assessment tool and characterising current and potential 
BM patterns is defined. Building upon the systematic literature review of journal articles on BM 
patterns conducted by Ibarra et al. (2021), the methodology suggested by Amshoff et al. (2015) and 
lately adopted by Curtis (2021) and Pieroni et al. (2021) was chosen as the most suitable approach 
to address this task. This method involves 1) the definition of a framework comprising the BM 
configuration options to be analysed, 2) the collection of data from a sample of companies based 
on the elements of the framework and 3) the application of the multidimensional scaling analysis 
to map recurring BM configuration combinations in the sample. 
Second, the design specifications for the development of the BMIT were established (Pieroni et al., 
2021). For that purpose, Research projects, organisations and websites providing BMITs were 
studied including The Circit Research Project (https://circitnord.com/), The Business Model 
Navigator 
(https://businessmodelnavigato 
r.com/), 
Business 
Model 
Zoo 
(https://www.businessmodelzoo.com/), Strategyzer (https://www.strategyzer.com/), The Business 
Model 
Toolbox 
(https://bmtoolbox.net/) 
and 
Sustainable 
Business 
Model 
Design 
(https://www.sustainablebusiness.design/). Additionally, the checklist for BMIT development 
suggested by Bocken et al. (2019) was adapted to ensure that the tool was rigorously developed 
and tested, was adaptable to different business contexts, easy to use and inspires BMI for 
sustainability. 
3. Prescriptive study: Conceptualization and development of the BMIT. 
Considering the requirements established in the second stage, the key functions and architecture 
of the BMIT were specified. The number of sections and the navigation between them was defined. 
The functionalities of each section were defined, describing the content of each section and the 
steps that users must take in each of them to exploit the potential of the BMIT. Finally, the logic 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1028 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
and scalability of the BMIT was ensured. Front-end, back-end, requirements for responsive web, 
platform administration and data logging were established. 
4. Descriptive Study II: The tool is tested and validated. 
In this last stage, the BMIT was validate considering three aspects: 1) the usability of the website 
(comprehension, content structure and navigation logic) and its performance, 2) the reliability of 
the results obtained in the self-assessment module, and 3) the relevance, interest, and usefulness 
of the tool for organisations. 
As the present study is part of an ongoing research, the BMIT is currently being tested with two 
participants: 1) The social innovation process manager of a Social Foundation that promotes the 
2030 Agenda at county level, and 2) a specialist engineer of a manufacturing firm dedicated to the 
development and manufacture of automation and machine control products. These companies 
were selected as representative of the region. 
Data was collected during a workshop. Participants interact on their own with the different modules 
of the BMIT for an hour while two researchers observe and take notes. Then, an interview of half 
an hour was conducted with each participant to discuss the results of the analysis and collect 
suggestions and improvements. 
Results 
This section shows the results obtained in the stages described so far.  
Methodology applied for the development of the BMIT (Descriptive Study I): 
Based on the analysis of 38 studies identified by Ibarra et al. (2021), a research framework 
containing eight BM dimensions was defined: 1) offering, 2) value proposition, 3) customers and 
market segments, 4) key communication and distribution channels, 5) key activities, 6) key 
resources, 7) key stakeholders and 8) revenue mechanisms. For each dimension, potential 
configuration options were specified. To analyse and map the BM patterns in the Region of 
Gipuzkoa, a random sample of 216 companies was selected from the SABI database (Li et al., 2011). 
Based on secondary research (i.e., corporate websites and annual reports), the configuration 
options used by each firm in their BMs were compiled into a binary table. A total of 49 configuration 
options were obtained through several iterations including expert contrast and the results of the 
empirical analysis itself. These configuration options were used to develop the self-assessment tool. 
To map the BM patterns of Gipuzkoa, multidimensional scaling was used to analyse the binary table 
with the XLSTAT software. Multidimensional scaling is a statistical analysis that provides a visual 
representation of the pattern of proximities (i.e., similarities or distances) between a set of objects. 
Configuration options with a high similarity value were visualised on a two-dimensional map, 
creating different BM patterns (Figure 6). A total of 28 BM patterns were identify after triangulating 
the empirical data with existing BM patterns from literature. Each pattern was then described 
following the Alexandrian pattern language, i.e.: pattern name, problem statement, context 
description, solution statement, real case examples and related patterns (Figure 1). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1029 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 1: Example of BM patterns’ definition 
Conceptualisation and development of the BMIT (Prescriptive Study): 
The final BMIT prototype is named NEBA and includes four modules (Figure 2), around a landing 
page with a short presentation of the BMIT and the sections the user can access.  
 
Figure 2: NEBA tool modules 
Self-assessment:  
The self-assessment module was developed in the form of a questionnaire divided into eight blocks. 
Each block includes a question that corresponds to one of the eight dimensions of the BM. For 
example, the question for the dimension Value Proposition is: What is the differential value of your 
organisation's offer? What makes customers choose your organisation over the competition? Users 
can select all those answers that are part of their main offer, which represent the configuration 
options (from the 49 options identified) corresponding to that dimension. For example, in the case 
of Value Proposition, seven responses are shown: 1) Quality, 2) Branding, 3) Design, 4) 
Customisation, 5) Integral solutions, 6) Sustainable/Circular, 7) Experience selling. Each answer 
includes a brief explanation to make it easier for users to understand. E.g. Quality is defined as 
follows: Quality raw materials, products, and services, based on efficient and cost-competitive 
processes. At the end of the questionnaire, companies can see the BM patterns associated with 
their answers. Companies can go deeper into each pattern by selecting them. 
Positioning: 
This module positions the organisation within a specific business model pattern, out of the 28 
patterns registered in the BMIT. As shown in Figure 3, the identified pattern is accompanied by an 
image, a name, and a brief description. The description was adapted from the problem and solution 
Strategic area Pattern name
Context description
Problem 
statement
Solution 
statement
Case examples
References
Resilience to 
Covid-19; 
Circular 
economy
0 Km
In today's economy 
companies products 
travel long distances 
from their place of 
extraction/production to 
the point of final 
use/sale.
Negative 
environmental 
impact, energy 
consumption and 
waste generation 
associated with 
transport. Covid-
19 has triggered 
relocation 
decisions due to 
supply failures
Use of local 
resources in a 
geographically 
close 
environment (for 
example, at a 
distance of less 
than 100 km), 
eliminating 
intermediaries 
and encouraging 
new forms of 
exchange and 
cooperation.
Baserriak KM 
(https://www.ba
serriakm0.com/)
Takacs et al., 
(2020);
Garcia (2016)

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1030 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
statements described in the worksheet (see Figure 1) to provide a more understandable language 
for firms and a more user-friendly solution within the NEBA online tool. 
Figure 3: NEBA Positioning: 
Pattern identified 
The module also describes the key BM dimensions affected by the pattern, real examples of 
companies that are categorised under this pattern and the success factors and challenges related 
to it, which represent key aspects related to sustainability and other European challenges for the 
region.  
Finally, the module shows other related patterns (Figure 4), in order to encourage organisations to 
explore and analyse business model opportunities and establish pathways towards BMI. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1031 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 4: NEBA Positioning: KM-0 BM related patterns 
Navigating: 
This module contains the description of the 28 identified BM patterns. The section contains 
descriptive text about their content and functioning. The patterns are described with a picture, a 
name, and a short description. These patterns can be filtered by sector and by strategic area. The 
sectors by which the patterns can be filtered are: Industry, commerce and hospitality, construction, 
and services. On the other hand, the strategic areas by which the patterns can be filtered are: 
Competitive Strengthening, Smart Industry, Resilience to Covid-19, Digitalisation, Servitization and 
Circular Economy. 
In Figure 5, the industry sector (purple) and circular economy strategic area (green) filters are 
applied. Users can select a pattern for a more detailed description. 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1032 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 5: NEBA Navigating 
Mapping: 
This module presents the results of the multidimensional scaling analysis. Figure 6 shows the map 
obtained from the analysis of the Industrial sector, which contains 11 of the 28 identified patterns, 
and the configuration options characteristic of each of the patterns.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1033 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 6: NEBA Mapping (BM patterns in the industry sector) 
Test results, suggestions, and improvements to the BMIT (descriptive Study II) 
Overall, the BMIT was considered easy to use. Minor changes in navigation and the need for 
additional information in certain sections were identified. The results obtained in the Self-
Assessment and Positioning modules were rated positively by the participants, confirming that the 
results reflected their BMs. The Social Foundation’s process manager commented on its usefulness: 
"It is a useful tool to understand our BM, how we are positioned and to reflect and think about how 
to move from one pattern to another”.  
Certain aspects for improvement have also been identified. In the case of companies with more 
than one business unit and diverse activities , the self-assessment resulted in too many patterns 
that although being representative of the companies’ BMs, made it difficult to understand and use 
the BMIT (this is the case of the manufacturing company). Moreover, the BMIT aims to represent 
the BMs of the industrial fabric of Gipuzkoa’s region. Thus, it does not accurately capture patterns 
of organisation that prioritise the creation of social value (e.g. educational centres or foundations).  
Finally, it is considered that NEBA can be used autonomously by organisations when they have 
sufficient knowledge and understanding of BMs. However, companies with little knowledge may 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1034 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
require facilitation and guidance from an expert to use the BMIT and exploit its full potential. An 
intermediate solution to maintain autonomy would be to include a training module. 
Conclusions 
This short paper presents the process followed to define, develop, and test a BMIT that seeks to 
support organisations in the assessment of their BMs and the exploration of current and potential 
BM  patterns. 
The BMIT is based on data obtained from local companies and refers to the strategic priorities of 
the region. Thus, the BM patterns identified are representative of the sectoral and regional reality. 
Moreover, to the author's knowledge, it is the only BMIT in the literature that provides a self-
assessment tool that suggests to the company its positioning with respect to its BM. 
The BMIT enables organisations to raise awareness and reflect on BMs. Companies can self-train 
themselves on the basis of real cases closer to their context and situation. In addition, it provides 
practical support for companies to identify sustainability opportunities, devise new BMs and share 
them within the organisation. In turn, policy makers can learn about existing BMs according to the 
strategic priorities of the region, identifying opportunities and gaps that will help them in the 
formulation of their innovation support policies. As academic contributions, the process followed 
in this research can be replicated and extrapolated to explore new BMs that can drive the 
transformation of socio-technical systems (e.g., collaborative or social business models). It thus 
contributes to the generation of further knowledge in the systematic identification, 
characterisation, and analysis of business model patterns as well as to the development of BMIT 
tools. 
As this is an ongoing study, the tool has only been tested in two companies. Further validation 
should be carried out with a set of representative companies from the four sectors analysed. 
Similarly, the potential of the tool should be explored with intermediary actors and policy makers. 
Whether the BMIT could be used autonomously or would require expert guidance needs to be 
further explored. Another area for future development concerns the development of additional 
frameworks and templates to enable the assessment of performance and sustainable impact, as 
well as the design, testing, scaling up and implementation of new business models. Finally, further 
research is needed to examine the social, economic, and environmental impacts of the identified 
BM patterns. 
References  
Alexander C (1977) A Pattern Language: Towns, Buildings, Construction. Oxford university press. 
Amshoff B, Dülme C, Echterfeld J, et al. (2015) Business model patterns for disruptive technologies. 
International Journal of Innovation Management 19(3). World Scientific Publishing Co. Pte Ltd: 
1540002. DOI: 10.1142/S1363919615400022. 
Blessing LTM and Chakrabarti A (2009) DRM: A Design Reseach Methodology. Springer. 
Bocken N, Strupeit L, Whalen K, et al. (2019) A review and evaluation of circular business model innovation 
tools. Sustainability 11(8). Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute: 2210. 
Bouwman H, de Reuver M, Heikkilä M, et al. (2020) Business model tooling: where research and practice 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1035 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
meet. Electronic Markets. Springer: 1–7. DOI: 10.1007/s12525-020-00424-5. 
Curtis SK (2021) Business model patterns in the sharing economy. Sustainable Production and Consumption 
27. Elsevier: 1650–1671. 
Frankenberger K, Weiblen T, Csik M, et al. (2013) The 4I-framework of business model innovation: A 
structured view on process phases and challenges. International Journal of Product Development 
18(3–4): 249–273. 
Gassmann, O., Frankenberger, K., Choudury M (2020) The Business Model Navigator: The Strategies behind 
the Most Successful Companies (2nd Ed.). Upper Saddle River, NJ: FT Press. 
Ibarra D, Valenciano AM and Igartua JI (2021) Business model patterns: A systematic literature review. In: 
XXV Congreso de Ingeniería de Organización, 2021, p. 201. 
Li X, Segarra Roca P and Papaoikonomou E (2011) SMEs’ responses to the financial and economic crisis and 
policy implications: an analysis of agricultural and furniture sectors in Catalonia, Spain. Policy Studies 
32(4). Taylor \& Francis: 397–412. 
Lüdeke-Freund F, Carroux S, Joyce A, et al. (2018) The sustainable business model pattern taxonomy—45 
patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable Production and 
Consumption 15: 145–162. DOI: 10.1016/j.spc.2018.06.004. 
Lüdeke-Freund F, Bohnsack R, Breuer H, et al. (2019) Research on Sustainable Business Model Patterns: Status 
quo, Methodological Issues, and a Research Agenda. In: Sustainable Business Models. DOI: 
10.1007/978-3-319-93275-0_2. 
Massa L, Tucci CLCL and Afuah A (2017) A critical assessment of business model research. Academy of 
Management Annals 11(1): 73–104. DOI: 10.5465/annals.2014.0072. 
Peñarroya-Farell M and Miralles F (2021) Business model dynamics from interaction with open innovation. 
Journal of Open Innovation: Technology, Market, and Complexity 7(1). Multidisciplinary Digital 
Publishing Institute: 81. 
Pieroni MPP, McAloone Tim C, Borgianni Y, et al. (2021) An expert system for circular economy business 
modelling: advising manufacturing companies in decoupling value creation from resource 
consumption. Sustainable Production and Consumption 27. Elsevier: 534–550. 
Pieroni MPP, McAloone Tim C. and Pigosso DCA (2021) Circular economy business model innovation: Sectorial 
patterns within manufacturing companies. Journal of Cleaner Production 286: 124921. DOI: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.124921. 
Remane G, Hanelt A, Tesch JF, et al. (2017) The Business Model Pattern Database-A Tool For Systematic 
Business Model Innovation. International Journal of Innovation Management 21(01): 1750004. DOI: 
10.1142/s1363919617500049. 
Sarasini S and Linder M (2018) Integrating a business model perspective into transition theory: The example 
of new mobility services. Environmental innovation and societal transitions 27. Elsevier: 16–31. 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1036 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
How To Do More With Less: A 
Sufficiency-oriented Innovation 
Process for Business Practices 
 
Laura Beyeler1,* Melanie Jaeger-Erben1 
1Sociology of Technology and Environment, Technical University of 
Brandenburg Cottbus, Germany 
*laura.beyeler@b-tu.de  
Extended abstract 
Sufficiency principle advocates for the transformation of both production and consumption 
practices towards an economy that operates within planetary boundaries (Reichel, 2018; 
Schneidewind & Zahrnt, 2014). Sufficiency calls for social and environmental justice, for example, 
through fair redistribution of wealth, universal satisfaction of basic human needs, and an absolute 
reduction of consumption volumes in most affluent countries in the world (Spangenberg, 2018; 
Wiedmann et al., 2020). Amid the ecological and climate crisis faced by humanity, economic 
recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic did not solely concentrate on economic growth indicators 
without challenging current unsustainable business activities. While the principles of efficiency and 
consistency have gained a lot of attention in research on  circular economy, sufficiency in 
production and consumption practices lacks a systematic understanding and a widely shared 
definition. Both are essential for the integration of sufficiency in research and transition practices 
towards a circular economy. 
Recent studies have defined businesses as sufficiency-oriented if they apply sufficiency-oriented 
strategies, such as sharing, open-source creation, or moderate promotion (Bocken & Short, 2016; 
Schneidewind & Palzkill-Vorbeck, 2011). However, businesses are social organizational forms that 
are more complex than lists of strategies, competitive advantages, or core activities (Massa et al., 
2018). Businesses can be described as complex sociocultural phenomena that consist of various 
social meanings, competences, and material arrangements, which are embedded in societal and 
political settings (Jaeger-Erben et al., 2017). The connection and interactions between these 
elements create the practice of doing business. To define sufficiency-oriented businesses, it is 
necessary to go beyond strategies and observe the essential elements and connections that 
characterize sufficiency in business practices. Based on the abductive approach of grounded theory 
methodology (Corbin & Strauss, 1990), this study offers the first conceptual foundation to recognize 
sufficiency in current business practices and define essential dimensions required for the 
integration of sufficiency in production and consumption practices. Interviews and podcasts with 
businesses in the fashion and electronic sectors that experiment sufficiency-oriented strategies 
were analyzed through the lens of social practice theory. The examination of development paths 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1037 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
and current practices of businesses that experiment sufficiency strategies makes it possible to 
derive further research, conceptual needs, and organizational need as well as political requirements 
for dissemination and stabilization of a sufficiency-oriented circular economy. 
 
The results showed that sufficiency in the business context does not correspond to a finite or static 
state. Rather, sufficiency in business practices consists of a social innovation process that is divided 
into phases such as identification of problems, experimentation of solution, and diffusion of new 
practices. Sufficiency emerges as the primary business purpose that aimed to counteract the 
problematic path-dependencies of affluence and growth imperative. During the innovation process, 
three fundamental sufficiency elements shape and influence the development of all sufficiency-
oriented business practices: answering basic human needs, clustering production and consumption 
spaces, and projecting an end to material growth.  
 
First, sufficiency practitioners design their products and services to satisfy basic human needs for 
good life rather than superfluous consumer wants. When focusing on the fulfillment of human 
needs, sufficiency practitioners select products and services that are strictly necessary and limit the 
production volumes to avoid excesses. In addition, by focusing on community needs, sufficiency 
practitioners find service solutions that entirely avoid new material production. Second, sufficiency 
practitioners cluster their consumption and production space to limit transport distances and 
create long-term and trustful relationships with stakeholders. Regional embeddedness plays a 
relevant role for sufficiency practitioners who do not envision the world as endless market 
opportunities that need to be conquered. Finally, sufficiency practitioners acknowledge the 
limitations of endless materials and financial growth. They expect to stop growing in organizational 
capacity and material production once a legitimate market size has been reached. The prosperity 
of a sufficiency-oriented ecosystem is more important than its organizational growth. Hence, 
collaboration with like-minded sufficiency-oriented partners is essential to the spread of sufficiency 
in society.  
 
The sufficiency-oriented innovation process is without consequences for the role businesses play 
in society or the definition of value creation. Sufficiency practitioners in their innovation process 
rethink and question the fundamentals of business, which leads to redefinition of their practice not 
as doing business but as doing sufficiency. Sufficiency-oriented businesses serve society, the 
environment, and stakeholders. The purpose of collective impact with reduction of production and 
consumption volumes and creation of a safe operating space within planetary boundaries prevails 
over shareholder profit maximization. Collective value does not arise from the aggregation of 
individual successful businesses but from the participation in a collaborative and solution-oriented 
ecosystem. Sufficiency creates a variety of values beyond products, services, and financial 
revenues. Knowledge, education, consumer awareness, supply chain transparency, competences, 
and infrastructure to care for long-lasting material use are some of the values that sufficiency 
practitioners contribute to their communities. Sufficiency ensures the following: the ownership of 
an organization stays within sufficiency-oriented stakeholders; the purpose of sufficiency is 
integrated in organizational structures, and the financial revenues are reinvested in the sufficiency-
oriented ecosystem. 
 
However, sufficiency-oriented innovation process show ambivalence between the desire to 
integrate sufficiency into business practices and dominant growth-oriented capitalist norm. For 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1038 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
example, practitioners still lack success indicators that monitor their progress towards sufficiency. 
Successful business continues to be evaluated according to sales, market share, or revenue. 
Individually, the impact of sufficiency practitioners on achieving global reduction in material 
consumption is limited. Collaboration and ecosystem growth are currently the only possibilities for 
sufficiency practitioners to influence economic and political spheres and increase their societal 
impact. Thus, further research should concentrate on potential transformation paths of entire 
sufficiency-oriented networks and ecosystems so that the practice of doing sufficiency successfully 
disseminates and stabilizes in society.  
Keywords  
Sufficiency, Social Practice Theory, Circular Economy, Production and Consumption Practices, 
Social Innovation Process 
References  
Bocken, N. M. P., & Short, S. W. (2016). Towards a sufficiency-driven business model: Experiences and 
opportunities. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions. 18 , 41–61. Available from: 
10.1016/J.EIST.2015.07.010 
Corbin, J. M., & Strauss, A. (1990). Grounded theory research: Procedures, canons, and evaluative criteria. 
Qualitative Sociology. 13(1), 3–21. Available from: 10.1007/BF00988593 
Jaeger-Erben, M., Rückert-John, J., & Schäfer, M. (2017). Soziale Innovationen für nachhaltigen Konsum - 
Wissenschaftliche Perspektiven, Strategien der Förderung und gelebte Praxis. Springer VS.  
Massa, L., Viscusi, G., & Tucci, C. L. (2018). Business Models and Complexity. Journal of Business Models. 
6(1), 59–71. Available from: 10.5278/ojs.jbm.v6i1.2579 
Reichel, A. (2018). Sufficiency in Business Strategies. In: Rijnhout, R. & Mastini, R. (eds.), Sufficiency - 
Moving beyond the gospel of eco-efficiency. Friends of the Earth Europe, Belgium, Brussels, pp. 22–
25. Available from: https://friendsoftheearth.eu/news/sufficiency-a-call-for-transformative-and-
systemic-change/ [Accessed 14th February 2022]. 
Schneidewind, U., & Palzkill-Vorbeck, A. (2011). Suffizienz als Business Case: Nachaltiges 
Ressourcenmanagement als Gegenstand einer transdisziplinären Betriebswirtschaftslehre. 
Wuppertal Institut für Klima, Umwelt, Energie, Wuppertal. Impulse Zur WachstumsWende. Report 
number: 12.  
Schneidewind, U., & Zahrnt, A. (2014). The institutional framework for a sufficiency driven economy. 
Ökologisches Wirtschaften. 3(29), 30–33. Available from: https://doi.org/10.14512/OEW290330 
Spangenberg, J. H. (2018). Introduction Sufficiency: a pragmatic, radical visionary approach. In: Rijnhout, R. 
& Mastini, R. (eds.), Sufficiency - Moving beyond the gospel of eco-efficiency. Friends of the Earth 
Europe, Belgium, Brussels, pp. 22–25. Available from: 
https://friendsoftheearth.eu/news/sufficiency-a-call-for-transformative-and-systemic-change/ 
[Accessed 14th February 2022]. 
Wiedmann, T., Lenzen, M., Keyßer, L. T., & Steinberger, J. K. (2020). Scientists’ warning on affluence. Nature 
Communications. 11(1), 1–10. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-020-16941-y 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1039 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
A business model patterns 
perspective on organizational value 
logics for degrowth 
 
Tobias Froese1,*, Markus Richter1, Florian Hofmann2, Florian 
Lüdeke-Freund1 
1ESCP Business School (Berlin Campus); 2TU Berlin 
*tfroese@escp.eu 
Extended abstract 
Organizations are exacted to both deal with change and change the deal for new ways of doing 
business. Particularly since, as Khmara & Kronenberg (2018: 722) point out, business activities are 
“a key driving force behind economic growth” while humanity approaches planetary and social 
limits of growth (Alvaredo et al., 2018; Steffen et al., 2015). Against this background, degrowth 
emerges as a new sustainability paradigm, a social movement, and a field of research focusing on 
how modern societies can become less dependent on economic growth and more future-proof in 
a socially sustainable way (Asara et al., 2015; Weiss & Cattaneo, 2017). However, while research on 
degrowth at the level of organizations is growing, it is dispersed and often builds on case studies 
that are predominantly explorative, presented in various formats, and set diverse foci (e.g., 
Bloemmen et al., 2015; Bradley, 2018; Schmid, 2018). 
For gaining actionable knowledge on degrowth at the level of organizations, research on 
sustainable business models (SBM) provides relevant conceptual perspectives (Boons & Lüdeke-
Freund, 2013). Business models present organizational designs and logics for value creation 
(Laasch, 2018). Khmara & Kronenberg (2018) as well as Hankammer et al. (2021) have begun to 
show that the conception of business models can be made fruitful for alternative economic 
paradigms such as degrowth.  
However, a key aspect of applying the conception of business models to degrowth has not yet been 
sufficiently addressed. In fact, degrowth puts into question one of the most fundamental business 
model concepts: organizational value creation. That is because degrowth calls for a deep socio-
ecological transformation. A transformation that fundamentally questions the classic 
understanding in mainstream business model literature according to which value creation – 
ultimately meaning value-added and, thus, growth – should be the primary objective of businesses 
and the business models they employ. While business models for sustainability extend this 
understanding of value creation, adding aspects of social and ecological value creation to it, they 
do not clearly and consistently alter it. Therefore, if value creation does not refer to the creation of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1040 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
products or services for which an economic value-added can be realized, we are faced with the 
following research question: What do value and value creation refer to in the context of degrowth? 
To identify degrowth-oriented forms of value creation, we use the concept of business model 
patterns (see, e.g., Abdelkafi et al., 2013; Remane et al., 2017; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018). A 
concept which is based on the architect and design theorist Christopher Alexander (1979), who 
understood and studied patterns in well-designed architecture as recurring problem-solution 
combinations. In line with this, Lüdeke-Freund et al. (2018: 148) have defined that a sustainable 
business model (SBM) pattern “describes an ecological, social, and/or economic problem that arises 
when an organization aims to create value, and it describes the core of a solution to this problem 
that can be repeatedly applied in a multitude of ways, situations, contexts, and domains.” For 
example, sharing can be a solution to the inefficient use of idle resources. 
Building on the notion of SBM patterns, we operationalize the phenomenon of organizational value 
creation through the conception that value is created when organizational activities interact in such 
a way that conditions, which certain stakeholders consider problematic, are (re)solved. It is 
important to note that the stakeholders concerned can include the focal organization itself. This 
rather generic and open understanding of value creation allows for inductively elaborating the 
meaning of value and the related forms of value creation in degrowth-oriented business models. 
Building on this preceding conceptualization, we follow (Snyder, 2019) and engage in literature-
based theory building through an integrative literature review of existing case studies on post-
growth and degrowth enterprises. The research design is divided into two main phases. First, a 
systematic review on extant case studies on degrowth organizations has been conducted. To 
identify relevant case studies, this process mainly followed suggestions made by Tranfield et al. 
(2003). The identified single or multiple case studies have then been analyzed applying Alexandrian 
pattern theory (Alexander, 1979) and, in particular, the notion of SBM patterns (Lüdeke-Freund et 
al., 2019; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018). The first phase has resulted in a preliminary collection of 42 
SBM patterns for degrowth. To give a brief example, the pattern ‘Create moments to experience 
degrowth values’ was found in articles written by Bloemmen et al. (2015), Bocken et al. (2020), 
Bradley (2018), and Chassagne & Everingham (2019). It addresses the problem that a lack of 
emotional knowledge and experience contributes to socially and ecologically unsustainable 
behavior and decision making. Here, organizations can create moments of deeper engagement by 
bringing together otherwise unrelated actors. For example, organizations can involve local 
communities in teaching tourists about the local culture and natural environment. 
We are now in the second phase in which we identify forms of organizational value creation from 
the identified patterns and integrate these into a framework of organizational value logics. The 
underlying conception here is as follows: SBM Patterns for degrowth translate directly into forms 
of organizational value creation. Moreover, previous research has identified empirical regularities 
in how organizations create value for and with their stakeholders (e.g., Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018; 
Bocken et al., 2014; Ritala et al., 2018). Thus, organizational value logics refer to higher level 
patterns in the way organizations function in creating important differences for (and with) specific 
stakeholders (cf., Laasch, 2018; Freudenreich et al., 2019). We are currently beginning to identify 
organizational value logics for degrowth, such as ‘Value access: Creating inclusive access to 
products and services’ or ‘Value extension: Extending the functional value of products’, to which 
we can assign different SBM patterns and forms of organizational value creation. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1041 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The findings of our research speak to both business model theory as well as scholars and 
practitioners engaged with degrowth-oriented businesses. As our research shows, the fact that 
degrowth radically challenges the value creation logic of modern economies is more than just 
rhetoric. Our research demonstrates a differentiated understanding of value and reveals new value-
logics forming the essence of business models for degrowth. 
Furthermore, while it is not assumed that our research will reveal a nearly exhaustive collection of 
SBM patterns for degrowth, it certainly contributes to building theory on organizational degrowth. 
According to Meredith (1993), research develops towards theory building as it cycles along phases 
of description, explanation, and testing. Already now our preliminary findings indicate the 
degrowth concept’s stage of development with regards to organizational designs and value logics. 
The results expose knowledge gaps as well as some contradictions which must be addressed in 
order to develop the existing body of knowledge further. Hence, the results reveal relevant avenues 
for future research.  
Keywords  
Alexandrian pattern theory, sustainable business model patterns, value creation, degrowth.  
References  
Abdelkafi, N., Makhotin, S., & Posselt, T. (2013). Business model innovations for electric mobility - What can 
be learned from existing business model patterns? In Int. J. Innov. Mgt. 17 (01), 1–41. DOI: 
10.1142/S1363919613400033. 
Alexander, C. (1979). The Timeless Way of Building. New York: Oxford University Press. 
Alvaredo, F., Chancel, L., Piketty, T., Saez, E., & Zucman, G. (2018). World Inequality Report 2018. Cambridge: 
The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press. 
Asara, V., Otero, I., Demaria, F., & Corbera, E. (2015). Socially sustainable degrowth as a social–ecological 
transformation: repoliticizing sustainability. In Sustain Sci 10 (3), 375–384. DOI: 10.1007/s11625-
015-0321-9. 
Bloemmen, M., Bobulescu, R., Le, N. Tuyen, & Vitari, C. (2015). Microeconomic degrowth. The case of 
Community 
Supported 
Agriculture. 
In 
Ecological 
Economics 
112, 
110–115. 
DOI: 
10.1016/j.ecolecon.2015.02.013. 
Bocken, N., Morales, L. Smeke, & Lehner, M. (2020). Sufficiency Business Strategies in the Food Industry—
The Case of Oatly. In Sustainability 12 (3), 824. DOI: 10.3390/su12030824. 
Bocken, N., Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014). A literature and practice review to develop sustainable 
business 
model 
archetypes. 
In 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production 
65, 
42–56. 
DOI: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.039. 
Boons, F., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013). Business models for sustainable innovation: state-of-the-art and steps 
towards 
a 
research 
agenda. 
In 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production 
45, 
9–19. 
DOI: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2012.07.007. 
Bradley, K. (2018). Bike Kitchens – Spaces for convivial tools. In Journal of Cleaner Production 197, 1676–1683. 
DOI: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.09.208. 
Chassagne, N., & Everingham, P. (2019). Buen Vivir: Degrowing extractivism and growing wellbeing through 
tourism. 
In 
Journal 
of 
Sustainable 
Tourism 
27 
(12), 
1909–1925. 
DOI: 
10.1080/09669582.2019.1660668. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1042 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Freudenreich, B., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Schaltegger, S. (2019). A Stakeholder Theory Perspective on Business 
Models: Value Creation for Sustainability. In J Bus Ethics 17 (1), 1. DOI: 10.1007/s10551-019-04112-
z. 
Hankammer, S., Kleer, R., Mühl, L., & Euler, J. (2021). Principles for organizations striving for sustainable 
degrowth: Framework development and application to four B Corps. In Journal of Cleaner Production 
300, 126818. DOI: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.126818. 
Khmara, Y., & Kronenberg, J. (2018). Degrowth in business: An oxymoron or a viable business model for 
sustainability? In Journal of Cleaner Production 177, 721–731. DOI: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.12.182. 
Laasch, O. (2018). Beyond the purely commercial business model. Organizational value logics and the 
heterogeneity of sustainability business models. In Long Range Planning 51 (1), 158–183. DOI: 
10.1016/j.lrp.2017.09.002. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Bohnsack, R., Breuer, H., & Massa, L. (2019). Research on Sustainable Business Model 
Patterns: Status quo, Methodological Issues, and a Research Agenda. In Annabeth Aagaard (Ed.): 
Sustainable Business Models, vol. 11. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 25–60. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L., & Breuer, H. (2018). The sustainable business model 
pattern taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model innovation. In 
Sustainable Production and Consumption 15, 145–162. DOI: 10.1016/j.spc.2018.06.004. 
Meredith, J. (1993). Theory Building through Conceptual Methods. In Int Jrnl of Op & Prod Mnagemnt 13 (5), 
3–11. DOI: 10.1108/01443579310028120. 
Remane, G., Hanelt, A., Tesch, J. F., & Kolbe, L. M. (2017). The Business Model Pattern Database. A Tool for 
Systematic Business Model Innovation. In International Journal of Innovation Management 21 (1). 
DOI: 10.1142/S1363919617500049. 
Ritala, P., Huotari, P., Bocken, N., Albareda, L., & Puumalainen, K. (2018). Sustainable business model 
adoption among S&P 500 firms: A longitudinal content analysis study. In Journal of Cleaner 
Production 170, 216–226. DOI: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.09.159. 
Schmid, B. (2018). Structured Diversity: A Practice Theory Approach to Post-Growth Organisations. In mrev 
29 (3), 281–310. DOI: 10.5771/0935-9915-2018-3-281. 
Snyder, H. (2019). Literature review as a research methodology: An overview and guidelines. In Journal of 
Business Research 104, 333–339. DOI: 10.1016/j.jbusres.2019.07.039. 
Steffen, W., Richardson, K., Rockström, J., Cornell, S. E., Fetzer, I., Bennett, E. M. et al. (2015). Sustainability. 
Planetary boundaries: guiding human development on a changing planet. In Science (New York, N.Y.) 
347 (6223), 1259855. DOI: 10.1126/science.1259855. 
Tranfield, D., Denyer, D., & Smart, P. (2003). Towards a Methodology for Developing Evidence-Informed 
Management Knowledge by Means of Systematic Review. In Br J Management 14 (3), 207–222. DOI: 
10.1111/1467-8551.00375. 
Weiss, M., & Cattaneo, C. (2017). Degrowth - Taking Stock and Reviewing an Emerging Academic Paradigm. 
In Ecological economics : the journal of the International Society for Ecological Economics 137, 220–
230. DOI: 10.1016/j.ecolecon.2017.01.014. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1043 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Ethnographic Method as a Tool for 
Green Business Model Innovation 
 
Thuvarakai Kandasamy1,* 
1BTECH, Aarhus University;  
*thuva.kandasamy@btech.au.dk  
Extended abstract 
While research on how new business models are developed has progressed considerably during the 
last decades, perspectives on how qualitative approaches such as ethnography can be applied to 
enhance the understanding of (green) business model innovation processes are still very limited. 
The focus on sustainable and green business models has been on a rise and today it is commonly 
agreed that combatting challenges such as climate change and poverty also requires the efforts of 
businesses. To understand the challenges, businesses encounter in innovating their business 
models towards more green versions, this paper argues that ethnographic methods can contribute 
additional insights on this topic and shed light on areas such as the management and leadership of 
the green business model innovation processes, i.e., by whom and how is the process lead? Where 
do the businesses encounter challenges in their efforts to become green? As Amit and Mitchell 
point out, ethnographic case studies can contribute to broaden the insight into larger issues 
(Hannerz 2010). 
Background: This study aims to explore what insights about green business model innovation 
processes ethnographic methods can provide. The most common methods to gather data within 
ethnography are observations and interviews. One of the foundational methods in ethnography is 
participant observation as it gives researchers unique access to get close to the group they want to 
study and learn the cultural language of the group (O'Reilly 2012). Through participant observation, 
it is possible to understand people in their own settings and vary the degree of a researcher’s 
involvement according to the context of the study (Spradley 2021). Interviews can take different 
forms, from informal conversations to structured interviews that follows an interview guide 
(O'Reilly 2012). The purpose is to understand the people that are the object of the study’s world 
from their own viewpoint. Similarly, in this study the focus is on what can be learned about the 
businesses representatives’ engagement in and understanding of green business model innovation 
through their participation in the processes. 
Business Model is defined as the rationale of how organizations generate, capture and deliver 
values to their customers (Osterwalder, Pigneur, and Tucci 2005; Osterwalder et al. 2010). Green 
refers to considering environmental aspects of the business model, and a typical business model 
can transform into a green business model by changing its dimensions to create, capture, deliver, 
receive, and consume both environmental and economic benefits (Sommer 2012; Abuzeinab et al. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1044 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
2016; Lindgren 2021). Business models of organizations can be studied using tools such as the B-
star (see Fig.1), which describes business models along seven dimensions (Lindgren and Rasmussen 
2013). These are value proposition, user and customer, value chain, competences, networks, 
relations, and value formula. In addition, the business model also has different components within 
the seven dimensions. Innovation in a business model can occur along any of these seven 
dimensions and within the components. 
 
Figure 1: The B-star with the 7 dimensions 
The physical manifestation of the B-star is the B-lab. The lab has the shape of a hexagon similar to 
the B-star and is equipped with tools for businesses, organizations, and networks to work with. A 
standard lab includes a B-star table, a B-board, several whiteboards, and a screen that can connect 
to other devices. The lab offers a framework to understand, discuss, learn, engage, and play with 
Green Business Model Innovation. The room can seat six people around the B-star table also shaped 
like a hexagon. Many of encounters with the businesses in the project takes place in these B-labs, 
and they thus become the ‘ethnographic field’ of research.  
 
Figure 2: The B-lab seen from two different viewpoints (Figure 2 in (Thorhauge, Kumar, and Lindgren 2018)  
In the B-Lab, the businesses can work with green business model innovation to get hands-on 
experience with the process. The researcher can facilitate the innovation process or can be an 
‘outside’ observer without intervening in the innovation process. Consequently, researchers can 
comprehend the behavior and the social interactions in creating green business model innovation. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1045 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Design and Methodology: To explore what can be learned about green business model innovation 
processes through the application of ethnographic methods, business participating in the Greenbizz 
project will be used as cases, where data is collected through meetings, discussions, workshops, 
participant observations, and semi-structured interviews. Greenbizz is a cross-border EU Interreg 
Kask project aiming to support start-ups and SMEs in reducing the total energy consumption and 
CO2-emissions by 15 to 20% and to convert towards renewable energies. The project aims to 
collaborate with a total of 60 start-ups and SMEs in Denmark, Sweden, and Norway (Greenbizz 
2020). Several rounds of collaborative meetings are held with each business. Typically, the first 
meeting will occur at the business, where the researcher also gets a tour around in the business. 
Hereafter the meetings can take place either at the premises of the universities, at the business, or 
at any location that preferably has a B-lab or the related tools. The first phase of the research 
includes a process of gathering data through (participant) observations in the B-lab during meetings 
with businesses and a business model analysis of selected businesses. As of February 2022, more 
than 50 meetings have been conducted in the Greenbizz project, and 15 of them have been 
conducted in a B-lab where the tools have been actively used. The second phase involves interview 
with participants in the meetings in the B-lab to gain insights on their experience working in the B-
lab compared to the observations made. This is further supported by expert-interviews with 
researchers who facilitate the meetings in the B-lab. 
Preliminary results and relevance: Preliminary results show that ethnographic methods could shed 
light on how the Green Business Model Innovation process takes form and progress when 
businesses aspire to embark on the green journey and what challenges they have to overcome in 
this process. It can elaborate on what aspects are discussed, such as areas of the seven dimensions 
on the B-star that get more attention from the participants thus also highlighting the different 
understandings of central concepts such as ‘green’, ‘sustainability’ and ‘innovation’ in a group, and 
how different actors ‘view’ a green business model innovation process i.e., what dimension in a 
business model gets the most attention from the business, where/ in which area do they see a value 
with regards to green transformation and who of the participants from the businesses that are the 
active ‘agents’ leading/ influencing the processes in becoming a more green business.  
Acknowledgement 
This paper acknowledges the EU Interreg KASK, ØKS and Horizon 2020 for funding the Greenbizz 
project and sponsoring the research on Green Business Models and Green Business Model 
Innovation 
Keywords  
Green Business Models, Ethnography, Ethnographic field, business model cube 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1046 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
References  
Abuzeinab, Amal, Mohammed Arif, Dennis J Kulonda, and Bankole Osita Awuzie. 2016. "Green business 
models transformation: evidence from the UK construction sector."  Built Environment Project and 
Asset Management. 
Greenbizz. 2020. "The Greenbizz project - EU Interreg Kask." accessed 14.01.2022. http://www.greenbizz.eu/. 
Hannerz, Ulf. 2010. Anthropology's world life in a twenty-first-century discipline, Anthropology, Culture and 
Society. London: Pluto. 
Lindgren, and Rasmussen. 2013. The Business Model Cube. Journal of Multi Business Model Innovation and 
Technology 1 (3). 
Lindgren, Peter. 2021. "A Scoping Review and Framework of Green Business Models Related to Future 
Wireless Technology."  NB! ICT Innovation, Regulation, Multi Business Model Innovation and 
Technology:329–362. 
O'Reilly, Karen. 2012. Ethnographic methods. Second edition. ed. Abingdon, Oxon ;: Routledge. 
Osterwalder, Alexander, Yves Pigneur, Tim Clark, and Patrick van der Pijl. 2010. Business model generation a 
handbook for visionaries, game changers, and challengers, Strategyzer series. Hoboken, N.J: Wiley. 
Osterwalder, Alexander, Yves Pigneur, and Christopher L. Tucci. 2005. "Clarifying Business Models: Origins, 
Present, and Future of the Concept."  Communications of the Association for Information Systems 
16:1. doi: 10.17705/1CAIS.01601. 
Sommer, Axel. 2012. Managing Green Business Model Transformations. 1st ed. 2012. ed, Sustainable 
Production, Life Cycle Engineering and Management. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg. 
Spradley, James P. 2021. Participant observation. Reissued [i.e. New edition]. ed. Long Grove, IL: Waveland 
Press. 
Thorhauge, M. L., A. Kumar, and P. Lindgren. 2018. "Towards a Global Connected Network of Real-World 
Business Model Innovation Environments." 2018 Global Wireless Summit (GWS), 25-28 Nov. 2018. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1047 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Business models of sustainable 
fashion – the exploration from micro-
institutional perspective 
 
Alina Kozarkiewicz1,* Monika Łada2, Agnieszka Kabalska1  
1AGH-University of Science and Technology, Cracow, Poland; 
2Warsaw School of Economics, Poland 
*akozarki@zarz.agh.edu.pl  
Extended abstract 
Introduction  
Our study is part of a larger investigation into the institutional perspective of new business model 
development (Vaskelainen, Münzel, 2018). In this approach, the institutional environment, as well 
as the specific logics and individual institutions are viewed as an important social aspect that both 
enable and constrain the development of specific practices. Because of the innovative nature of the 
business model concept, we employ prior studies on embedded agency and efforts of institutional 
entrepreneurship (Greenwood, Suddaby, 2006) aimed at institutionalizing new patterns of action 
and obtaining or maintaining entity’s legitimacy (Suddaby et al., 2017). Our research focuses on 
micro-level processes (Gray et al., 2015; Powell, Jeannette, 2008), which is becoming increasingly 
popular perspective. Our study is aimed at individuals who have decided to start a business using a 
new responsible fashion models.  
In our research we strive to explain how entrepreneurs perceive and present their motivations and 
sources of involvement in activities that adhere to the relatively new principles of responsible 
fashion. We perceive their decision to use a specific business model as a result of institutional work 
(Lawrence et al., 2011) - the aftermath of exposing individuals to the influence of various elements 
of the institutional environment, the perception of certain pressures and reflection on their impact. 
The institutional portfolio we consider here as a collection of various mental patterns developed as 
a result of experience that an individual could use and mobilize in relation to a specific situation 
(Viale, Gendron, 2013).  
Our study aims at investigation of the institutional biographies of entrepreneurs running startups 
of sustainable fashion. The choice of the fashion industry relates to the perception of this industry 
as an absorbing area that has undergone significant changes in recent years (Brydges 2021). 
However, they have an impact not only on the numbers illustrating the quantities of production 
and sale (Medcaffe, Miro 2022), the use of new methods of production, or digital transformation 
(Runfola, Guercini, 2013; Arrigo, 2022). What is similarly important is the  growing concern about 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1048 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the impact on water pollution, greenhouse gases, landfill waste, poor working conditions, etc. The 
requirement towards transition into slow fashion is expressed in thousands of scientific articles, 
media news, reports, or blogs (Li, Leonas, 2021). Sustainable (or: responsible, fair, or slow) fashion 
has been explored from the variety of dimensions, including business models (Pedersen, et al., 
2016; Todeschini et al., 2017; Rinaldi, 2019).  
In our paper, we focus on the interrelation between the conscious choice of a responsible business 
model and institutional context influencing the decision. We attempt to answer the question: what 
institutional elements entrepreneurs mobilize when they publicly present their motivations for 
developing responsible fashion business models? The collected research material and the coding 
are aimed at the analysis of entrepreneurial institutional biographies: identification of the main 
sources of institutional impact, specific institutional patterns related to responsible fashion, and 
reflections that led entrepreneurs to consciously made and agency-motivated choices.  
Research approach 
Our study relied on secondary sources. The research material consisted of interviews with 
entrepreneurs running sustainable startups in the fashion industry. The primary requirement for 
including the material in the research sample was a narrative in the form of statements by the 
entrepreneurs depicting the image of the activity as seen through the interviewee's eyes. We were 
able to collect research material in the form of 105 interviews. We used NVivo 11 Pro software to 
code the research material, and we coded it focusing on institutional pressures and their 
subcategories (education, experience, family life, travelling, etc.), perceived contradictions, 
attitudes, and ways of justifying the entrepreneur's own life choices. 
Findings  
The multiplicity and variety of references in the respondents' statements reflect the complexity of 
the institutional environment. The respondents were mostly female entrepreneurs in the fashion 
industry, with an artistic flair, who strive to combine business with social and environmental goals, 
ensuring self-employment, personal development, and the ability to combine passion and family 
life. In accordance with the adopted theoretical perspective, we identify a wide range of pressures 
and interpret them as manifestations of institutional work, which led to the decision to use a new 
category of responsible fashion business models. We emphasize the significance of such an impact 
from two perspectives (see Greenwood, Suddaby, 2006): the institutional portfolio of 
entrepreneurs and the openness to alternative business models. The institutional portfolio 
perspective reflects the process of broadening the range of patterns mobilized in institutional work. 
In this context, we interpret the aforementioned sources of institutional impact as a manifestation 
of entrepreneurs' awareness of the possibility of alternative modes of operation, particularly the 
use of business models other than the currently dominant ones.  
Contact with new patterns occurred as a result of both a temporary, radical change of the 
institutional field, such as moving or traveling, and an internal change within the current 
environment. It is worth noting that the new patterns emerged not only from an environment with 
a higher level of institutionalization of responsible fashion models (developed countries), but we 
also identified instances where the patterns were practices that resulted from a lower level of 
economic development (past or present). As a result, we can conclude that responsible fashion 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1049 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
models spread not only through diffusion, but also through the individual combination of various 
fragmentary patterns. 
The theme of combining various institutional patterns is also reflected in the rationales for engaging 
in responsible fashion. Entrepreneurs pointed to the relationship of the adopted business model 
with passion or hobby, family traditions, broader social beliefs (healthy life), different life role 
(mothers, granddaughters), and the work-life-balance. All these factors are mobilized as arguments 
emphasizing the difference of the adopted business model from the dominant patterns. We 
interpret this perceived and emphasized contradiction between the logics of traditional and 
responsible fashion as a deliberate effort to loosen the embedded agency (Battilana et al., 2009). 
The place of entrepreneurs in the field also demonstrates the importance of loosening embedded 
agencies. Because of their distinctiveness, we place them on the periphery of the institutional field. 
They are representatives of small businesses, starting out with limited resources. Moreover, the 
experience related to changing the environment enabled people to not only learn new patterns, 
but also to disassociate themselves from the existing institutional pressures. Changes in the course 
of a professional career, a new stage of education, travel or work away are perceived as facilitating 
the verification of existing patterns, making it easier to question them, and increasing the proclivity 
to seek alternatives. 
Concluding remarks 
The discussion of our research findings presented here emphasizes the importance of the 
institutional dimension in understanding the causes, progress, and directions of development of 
new business models, including those referred to as responsible fashion. We demonstrated, using 
the constructs of the institutional portfolio and embedded agencies, that the application of these 
models is not only the result of proactive targeted agency efforts, but is also deeply socially 
embedded. Our findings confirm the importance of conducting research on business models not 
only from the perspective of the impact of current institutional logics, but also from the perspective 
of personal experiences of individuals subjected in their lives to various sources and trajectories of 
institutional impact.  
Keywords  
institutional portfolio, institutional work, embedded agency, responsible fashion.  
References  
Arrigo, E. (2022) Digital platforms in fashion rental: a business model analysis. Journal of Fashion Marketing 
and Management: An International Journal. 26 (1), 1-20. 
Battilana, J., Leca, B., & Boxenbaum, E. (2009) How Actors Change Institutions: Towards a Theory of 
Institutional Entrepreneurship. The Academy of Management Annals. 3(1), 65-107.  
Brydges, T. (2021) Closing the loop on take, make, waste: Investigating circular economy practices in the 
Swedish fashion industry. Journal of Cleaner Production, 293, 126245.  
Gray, B., Purdy, J. M., & Ansari, S. (2015) From Interactions to Institutions: Microprocesses of Framing and 
Mechanisms for the Structuring of Institutional Fields. Academy of Management Review. 40(1), 115-
143.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1050 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Greenwood, R., & Suddaby, R. (2006) Institutional entrepreneurship in mature fields: The big five accounting 
firms. Academy of Management Journal. 49(1), 27-48.  
Lawrence, T. B., Suddaby, R., & Leca, B. (2011) Institutional work: Refocusing institutional studies of 
organization. Journal of Management Inquiry. 20(1), 52-58.  
Li, J., & Leonas, K. K. (2021) Sustainability topic trends in the textile and apparel industry: a text mining-based 
magazine article analysis. Journal of Fashion Marketing and Management: An International Journal. 
26(1), 67-87. 
Medcalfe, S., & Miro, E. M. (2022) Sustainable practices and financial performance in fashion firms. Journal 
of Fashion Marketing and Management: An International Journal. 26(1), 141-158. 
Pedersen E., Gwozdz W., & Hvass K. (2016) Exploring the Relationship Between Business Model Innovation, 
Corporate Sustainability, and Organisational Values within the Fashion Industry. Journal of Business 
Ethics, 149, 267-284. 
Powell, W. W., & Jeannette, C. (2008). Microfoundations of Institutional Theory. In The Sage handbook of 
organizational institutionalism. 
Rinaldi F.R. (2019) Fashion Industry 2030. Reshaping the Future Through Sustainability and Responsible 
Innovation. Milano: Bocconi University Press.  
Runfola, A. & Guercini, S. (2013) Fast fashion companies coping with internationalization: driving the change 
or changing the model? Journal of Fashion Marketing and Management: An International Journal. 
17(2), 190-205.  
Suddaby, R., Bitektine, A., & Haack, P. (2017) Legitimacy. Academy of Management Annals. 11(1), 451-478.  
Todeschini B., Nogueira Cortimiglia M., Callegaro-de-Menezes D., & Ghezzi A. (2017) Innovative and 
sustainable business models in the fashion industry: Entrepreneurial drivers, opportunities, and 
challenges. Business Horizons, 60, 759-770.  
Vaskelainen, T., & Münzel, K. (2018). The effect of institutional logics on business model development in the 
sharing economy: The case of German carsharing services. Academy of Management Discoveries. 
4(3), 273-293. 
Viale, T., & Gendron, Y. (2013). Institutional Portfolios: Analyzing the Role of Individuals in Processes of 
Institutional Work. Academy of Management Proceedings. 2013(1), 12375.  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1051 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Exploring Tensions of Early-Stage 
Ventures that strive for Sustainability 
 
Martin Glinik1,*, Patrick Holzmann2, Romana Rauter 3 
1Graz University of Technology; 2University of Klagenfurt; 3University 
of Graz   
*martin.glinik@tugraz.at 
Abstract 
How to deal with tensions in corporate sustainability is an issue of high relevance for both, scholars, 
and practitioners. So far, however, research has focused mainly on tensions faced by large 
established firms in their transition from currently unsustainable to more sustainable business 
practices. 
Since early-stage ventures that strive for sustainability have distinctly different characteristics, they 
cannot rely on any “ready-to-wear” strategy. In addition, sustainability-oriented ventures have 
extremely limited resources and often only one opportunity to establish themselves on the market. 
This puts them under enormous pressure and hampers the much-needed sustainable solutions that 
result from their entrepreneurial efforts. 
In the current literature, there is far less attention dedicated to tensions sustainability-oriented 
ventures face in their early stages when developing their first viable business models. In particular, 
our understanding of the content and levels of tensions is limited. 
To close this gap, the present study examines tensions faced by sustainability-oriented ventures 
during their (pre-) seed and seed phase. We put special emphasis on the tactical business model 
choices. 
We sampled eight sustainability-oriented ventures tracing their business model development, the 
occurring related tensions longitudinally applying content analysis. We followed a four-step process 
consisting of material collection, descriptive analysis, category selection and material evaluation. 
With this study, we want to deepen our understanding about the occurrence and changes of 
tensions, sustainability-oriented ventures face in their early stages. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1052 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Track 4.2 - Design Thinking, Actor 
Engagement, and Legitimation in the 
Context of Circular Business Model 
Innovation 
Track chairs: Francesca Ostuzzi, Katrien Verleye, 
(Ghent University) and Fatima Khitous (University of 
Oulu) 
 
This track aims to explore how the concepts of design thinking, actor engagement, and 
legitimation advance business model innovation in the context of a circular economy. 
This track welcomes scholars from different disciplines, and it is open to conceptual and 
empirical papers that relate different topics like co-creation, design practices, legitimation 
mechanisms, engagement strategies, systems thinking, cybernetics, trust, collaboration, 
and self-sustainability to the circular business model innovation. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1053 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Mechanisms driving inter-
organizational collaboration for 
sustainable business model 
innovation 
 
Rishi Bhatnagar 1,*, Duygu Keskin 1, Arjan Kirkels 2, A. Georges L. 
Romme 1 
1Eindhoven University of Technology, School of Industrial Engineering; 
2Eindhoven University of Technology, School of Innovation Science 
*r.bhatnagar@tue.nl 
Abstract  
This research adopts a qualitative ethnographic approach to explore how a business organization 
collaborates with its customers (B2B) when innovating toward sustainable business models. 
Investigating these supplier-customer collaborations is essential to uncover what and how these 
collaborations contribute to the sustainable business model innovation (SBMI) process of the 
supplier.  
Key words 
Sustainable business models, business model innovation, inter-organizational collaboration, 
business experimentation, customer engagement 
 
1. Introduction 
Due to various societal pressure (e.g. increased awareness and regulatory control resulting in 
market demand), business organizations are increasingly improving their environmental and social 
sustainability. Many companies commit to sustainability goals and targets. Frequently they use 
business model innovation as a vehicle to achieve these goals (Bocken & Geradts, 2019; Laukkanen 
& Patala, 2014). Sustainable business model innovations (SBMI) can be defined as “innovations that 
create significant positive and/or significantly reduced negative impacts for the environment 
and/or society, through changes in the way the organization and its value-network create, deliver 
value and capture value or change their value propositions” (Bocken et al., 2014:p.44). Literature 
on SBMI emphasizes the need for business organizations to collaborate with external actors, such 
as their customers and suppliers. This inter-organizational collaboration (IOC) can enable firms to 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1054 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
achieve their sustainability goals by means of sustainable business models (SBMs) (Aagaard & 
Lodsgård, 2019; Bocken & Geradts, 2019; Evans et al., 2017; Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013; 
Geissdoerfer, Bocken & Jan, 2016; Dentoni, Pinkse & Lubberink, 2021; Arnold, 2017).  
IOC can enhance SBMI through preventing silo thinking, utilizing interdependencies and synergies 
between stakeholders, and working together towards breaking complex, unsustainable cycles of 
production and consumption (path dependencies) (Bocken & Geradts, 2019; Breuer & Lüdeke-
Freund, 2017; Escher & Brzustewicz, 2020). However, how IOC relates to the SBMI process and how 
it enables the design and implementation of SBMs has not been well addressed in the literature, in 
particular in the context of well established, incumbent firms. Previous studies either study IOC in 
relation to different type of innovations, for example, BMI (Nardelli & Broumels, 2018; Albino, 
Dangelico & Pontrandolfo, 2012; Sjödin et al., 2020; Reymen et al., 2017) and ecosystem 
innovations (Walrave et al., 2017; Adner, 2017; Oskam, Bossink & de Man, 2021), or in different 
organizational settings, for example, startups (Bocken, Miller & Evans, 2016; Geissdoerfer, Savaget 
& Evans, 2017; Heyes et al., 2018) and business-NGO partnerships (Aagaard & Lodsgård, 2019). 
Therefore, our study seeks to develop an in-depth understanding of the collaboration dynamics as 
enablers of SBMI in the business-to-business context. We will focus on incumbent suppliers and 
their customers as the two main actors. The collaboration with the customer is crucial for 
developing novel business models (Sjödin et al., 2020) to deliver societal and environmental value, 
while catering to the customer needs. The main research question thus is: 
How can supplier-customer collaborations enable sustainable business model innovation for the 
supplier? 
For this purpose, we seek to integrate lessons from the literatures on IOC and SBMI, with a focus 
on collaboration mechanisms and conditions needed for SBMI (section 2). Subsequently, we adopt 
a qualitative ethnographic approach to explore how a business organization collaborates with its 
customers for SBMI (section 3-5).  
2. Theoretical Background 
2.1 Sustainable Business Model Innovation  
In recent years, increasing attention is being given to the SBMI process in understanding how 
organizations can create sustainable value. Scholars describe the SBMI process in highly similar 
ways, consisting of three broad phases of sensing / concept designing, seizing / detailed designing, 
and transforming / implementation (see Bocken et al., 2018; Geissdoerfer et al., 2017; Mendoza et 
al., 2017; Pieroni et al., 2019; Sjödin et al., 2020).  
The initial phase of sensing is about identification of sustainable value creation and capture 
opportunities, which are directed by both the sustainability goals of the organizations and the 
traditional customer demands in the market. The second phase (seizing) deals with designing and 
testing various business model concepts based on the opportunities identified in sensing phase. 
This step includes piloting and prototyping, which results in the selection of business models to be 
further detailed and developed. The third phase (transforming) results in the implementation of 
the selected business model concepts. This final step involves scaling-up and mainstreaming the 
developed and tested SBM concepts.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1055 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
In order for organizations to innovate SBMs successfully, scholars have identified several enablers 
to SBMI (Sinkovics et al., 2021; Breuer et al., 2018; Bocken & Geradts, 2019; Velter et al., 2020). 
Firstly, a systemic perspective is needed that considers the broader societal and environmental 
stakeholders’ value in the SBMI. Secondly, having a clear sustainability vision and goals as part of 
corporate strategy is an important enabler for SBMI. Moreover, organizations should develop new 
knowledge, capabilities, skills and technologies, to design and implement innovative SBMs. 
Additionally, organizations should ring-fence resources, such as time and finances, to invest in 
SBMI. Lastly, to manage the impacts and outcomes of SBMs, organizations should set up 
performance metrics to measure sustainability performance of SBMs. 
Another important enabler of SBMI is the collaboration among stakeholders. The SBMI process 
frameworks fail to provide insights into how various internal and external stakeholders are involved 
within SBMI (Berends et al., 2016; Ciulli & Kolk, 2019). This is especially true for established firms 
because they have a myriad set of stakeholders, which often result in misalignments and lack of 
clarity on how different stakeholders participate in the SBMI process. There is a need for more 
research to understand the SBMI process from an inter-organizational perspective (Pieroni, 
McAloone & Pigosso, 2019). Additionally, scholars studying the SBMI have noted the reluctance of 
established firms to engage extensively with stakeholders and business environment as it often 
requires extra effort and time (Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013; Evans et al., 2017; Geissdoerfer, 
Vladimirova & Evans, 2018; Bocken & Geradts, 2019).  
2.2 Inter-Organizational Collaboration 
IOC is defined as a “recursive process where people or organizations work together in an 
intersection of common goals by sharing knowledge, learning, and building consensus” (Dietrich et 
al., 2010:p.60). A review of IOC process dynamics by Majchrzak and colleagues (2015), Dietrich et 
al. (2010), and Austin & Seitanidi (2012b) reveal four prominent dimensions which can be used to 
study the process dynamics of IOCs.  
The first dimension is the IOC goal which, in the case of SBMI, refers to the goal set out by the 
collaborating organizations to achieve in the SBMI process. The second dimension is the nature and 
interaction style of the collaboration among partners, which can vary between transactional 
(formal) and relational (informal). For SBMI, more relational collaboration is preferred (Breuer et 
al., 2018; Breuer & Lüdeke-Freund, 2017; Velter et al., 2020). The third dimension are the roles and 
procedures followed in the IOC, including decision making and control (Dietrich et al., 2010; Austin 
& Seitanidi, 2012b). And finally, the fourth dimension is the composition of actors involved from 
both organizations.  
These four dimensions are used to study the IOC empirical cases in this study. 
2.3 Mechanisms enabling Inter-Organizational Collaboration for Sustainable 
Business Model Innovation  
In literature several mechanisms are described that can influence successful collaboration and can 
enable SBMI. A number of (S)BMI frameworks highlight approaches on how to make the innovation 
process more collaborative (see Austin & Seitanidi, 2012a, 2012b; Baldassarre et al., 2017; Breuer 
& Lüdeke-Freund, 2017; Rey-Garcia et al., 2021; Rohrbeck et al., 2013). Additional potential 
collaboration mechanism can be found in different literatures: in SBMI literature (Bocken & 
Geradts, 2019; Dentoni, Pinkse & Lubberink, 2021; Oskam, Bossink & de Man, 2021), collaborative 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1056 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
innovation literature (Davis & Eisenhardt, 2011; Reficco et al., 2018; Austin & Seitanidi, 2012a, 
2012b; Keeling et al., 2021), inter-organizational collaboration literature (Majchrzak, Jarvenpaa & 
Bagherzadeh, 2015; Dietrich et al., 2010; Sharma & Kearins, 2011), supply chain collaboration 
literature (Fawcett et al., 2012; Soosay & Hyland, 2015), knowledge management literature (Carlile, 
2004), and in B2B service innovation literature (Heirati & Siahtiri, 2019; Lievens & Blažević, 2021; 
Kazadi, Lievens & Mahr, 2016). The mechanisms identified in these literatures are summarized in 
Table 1. We refer to these as ‘theory-based mechanisms’. 
Table 10: Theory-based mechanisms from literature 
Theory-based Mechanisms 
Definition 
Developing shared vision/common 
sustainability goals 
Co-creating and communicating clear sustainability goals and alignment 
of interests within actors 
Purposive unlearning 
Conscious challenging of mainstream ideas and mindsets 
Marshalling internal and external 
resources 
Bringing together the resources, skills and knowledge for co-creation 
Intellectual transparency 
Actors sharing learnings and co-creating knowledge transparently 
Performance measurement 
Monitoring and measuring the impacts of the outcome achieved – to 
measure how successful was the SBMI exercise 
Mobilizing diverse actors 
Actors from different management levels, organizations and capabilities 
need to be mobilized  
Trans-disciplinary language  
Language that goes beyond disciplinary silos and connects diverse set of 
actors 
Clear roles and process for collaboration 
Collaboration process and the roles of different stakeholders are clear, 
giving the actors clarity 
Conflict resolution and trust  
Collaborations with methods in place to resolve conflicts that arise 
during the process, result in higher trust within actors 
Mutual respect and commitment 
Partners with mutual respect and trust for each other, result in higher 
commitment and success of collaboration 
 
The collaboration mechanisms presented in Table 1 are used as a theoretical lens to collect and 
analyze data in the empirical cases. 
3. Methodology  
In order to answer the research question, we adopted an embedded case study design, where 
multiple collaboration trajectories between an incumbent supplier and its customers are tracked. 
In total 9 different key customer accounts are studied of a global logistics firm, LogInc. The firm 
designs and integrates large complex logistic automation systems for the aviation, parcel, and 
warehousing sectors. These cases were selected using the following criterion: the collaboration 
within the key customer accounts must exhibit an instance (as a project or a tender) in which a new 
sustainable business model is offered to the customer, that is, a different value proposition to 
LogInc’s traditional business model of selling and installing technical systems.  
The strength of the case study method is its ability to deal with a substantial variety of evidence – 
documents, artifacts, interviews, and observations (Yin, 2003; Van Thiel, 2014). We study diverse 
cases (i.e., customers from different industrial sectors and with varying sustainability ambitions) to 
learn how various mechanisms play a role in the success or failure of the collaboration between the 
supplier and customer in achieving SBMI outcomes (Seawright & Gerring, 2008). This diversity in 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1057 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
cases allows a cross-case comparison, which should help in increasing the analytical generalizability 
of the findings.  
Using an ethnographic lens and adopting process research methods (Langley & Tsoukas, 2017), the 
study’s data collection is primarily based on qualitative data collection methods such as semi-
structured interviews, company documents (presentations and reports) and participant-
observation (e.g., in customer meetings). For each case, we draw on semi-structured interviews 
with four to six stakeholders, such as the key account managers, sales engineers, and sales 
managers from the supplier, and the procurement or innovation managers from the customer side. 
These multiple perspectives are needed to create a valid and reliable narrative of the collaboration 
process.  
The data analysis of this study follows a three-step process. First, the analysis maps out the 
collaboration process across the three phases of the SBMI process (as identified in section 2.1) and 
the four dimensions of IOC (section 2.2). In this step, the data is transcribed and coded on the basis 
of the mechanisms discussed in section 2.3. The second step is the within-case analysis, which 
reveals the roles played by particular mechanisms in the case narrative. Thirdly, the cross-case 
analysis is undertaken to reveal patterns across different key accounts and what it means for the 
business model innovation process of the supplier organization. The cross-case analysis helps 
develop a deeper understanding of how each mechanism enables collaboration for SBMI in the 
empirical cases.  
4. Results  
4.1 Role of collaborations in the supplier’s SBMI Process   
The section presents a short summary of the results based on our ongoing analysis. First, the overall 
SBMI process of LogInc is described. This overall SBMI process also entails the two main 
collaboration approaches that are observed by cross-comparison of the nine embedded cases. 
These steps help to illustrate the role of IOC in LogInc’s SBMI process. 
The business model innovation process at LogInc is customer-centric, decentralized, and highly 
integrated with the sales function. The key account managers (along with sales and customer 
relations management teams) are engaged in constant decentralized experimentation with their 
customers. Each key account can be viewed as a rather independent arm of an octopus. The sales-
customer interactions bring customer demands and co-created ideas (sensing / concept design 
phase of SBMI) to the internal core of the company who are responsible to develop the detailed 
solutions (seizing / detailed design phase of SBMI), see figure 1. The internally developed solutions 
are then taken back to the customer for testing and implementation (transforming / 
implementation phase of SBMI). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1058 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
Figure 13: SBMI Process in Technology Incumbent firm 
The collaboration of LogInc with its customers across the different key accounts illustrate two main 
collaboration approaches: 
a. Formal, tender-based collaborations: These collaborations are observed at operational level 
with local/region-specific teams of customers. They include a formal tender process, which is 
highly regulated by the global market forces of the industry. The formal tender process 
follows similar phases to the three phases of SBMI (from section 2.1). These include pre-
bidding, bidding, and post-bidding phases, which align well with sensing, seizing, and 
transforming phases of SBMI. 
b. Informal, vision/trends-based collaborations: These collaborations are observed at a strategic 
level with future-looking stakeholders of customer organizations which are interesting in 
long-term trends of industry and society. They do not include a formal tender process, and 
usually take place with existing customers who have a strong relationship with LogInc. 
4.2 Within-case analysis of the nine cases 
This sub-section will include the narratives of each of the nine collaboration cases studied. Cases 
will be analyzed based on SBMI phases & IOC dimensions. 
4.3 Cross-case analysis 
Across the SBMI process and the types of collaboration approaches observed at LogInc, the theory-
based mechanisms (Table 1) are used as basis to analyze and validate the effects of collaboration 
approaches. We are currently in the process of analysing the data collected. With empirical 
evidence, we intend to inductively identify practice-based mechanisms and subsequently narrow 
down to the most relevant mechanisms with a focus on their theoretical underpinnings. 
Table 11: Theory-based and practice-based collaboration mechanisms for SBMI 
Customer 
Mechanisms 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
J 
P 
Q 
R 
Developing shared vision/common 
sustainability goals 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purposive unlearning 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marshalling internal and external resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intellectual transparency 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1059 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Performance measurement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mobilizing diverse actors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trans-disciplinary language  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clear roles and process for collaboration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conflict resolution and trust  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mutual respect and commitment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Practice-based mechanisms 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Discussion & Conclusion  
The research contributes to literature in three ways. Firstly, the paper broadens the understanding 
of how IOC for SBMI  in a supplier-customer setting looks like (Ciulli & Kolk, 2019; Berends et al., 
2016; Pieroni, McAloone & Pigosso, 2019). Secondly, this research brings out unique learnings by 
synthesizing insights from the literatures on SBMI and IOC to identify collaboration mechanisms 
that can enhance the SBMI process (Dentoni, Pinkse & Lubberink, 2021; Reficco et al., 2018; Bocken 
& Geradts, 2019; Breuer et al., 2018). The study illustrates which and how mechanisms play crucial 
roles in enabling collaborations for the SBMI process. Thirdly, practitioners can use this study’s 
findings to assess and enhance their collaboration processes with customer. 
References 
Aagaard, A. & Lodsgård, L. (2019) Leveraging Sustainable Business Model Innovation Through Business-NGO 
Collaboration. In: Annabeth Aagaard (ed.). Sustainable Business Models. [Online]. Cham, Springer 
International Publishing. pp. 211–238. Available from: doi:10.1007/978-3-319-93275-0_8. 
Adner, R. (2017) Ecosystem as Structure: An Actionable Construct for Strategy. Journal of Management. 
[Online] 43 (1), 39–58. Available from: doi:10.1177/0149206316678451. 
Albino, V., Dangelico, R.M. & Pontrandolfo, P. (2012) Do inter-organizational collaborations enhance a firm’s 
environmental performance? A study of the largest U.S. companies. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
[Online] 37, 304–315. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2012.07.033. 
Arnold, M. (2017) Fostering sustainability by linking co-creation and relationship management concepts. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
[Online] 
140, 
179–188. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.03.059. 
Austin, J.E. & Seitanidi, M.M. (2012a) Collaborative Value Creation: A Review of Partnering Between 
Nonprofits and Businesses: Part I. Value Creation Spectrum and Collaboration Stages. Nonprofit and 
Voluntary 
Sector 
Quarterly. 
[Online] 
41 
(5), 
726–758. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1177/0899764012450777. 
Austin, J.E. & Seitanidi, M.M. (2012b) Collaborative Value Creation: A Review of Partnering Between 
Nonprofits and Businesses. Part 2: Partnership Processes and Outcomes. Nonprofit and Voluntary 
Sector Quarterly. [Online] 41 (6), 929–968. Available from: doi:10.1177/0899764012454685. 
Baldassarre, B., Calabretta, G., Bocken, N.M.P. & Jaskiewicz, T. (2017) Bridging sustainable business model 
innovation and user-driven innovation: A process for sustainable value proposition design. Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
[Online] 
147 
(February 
2019), 
175–186. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.01.081. 
Berends, H., Smits, A., Reymen, I. & Podoynitsyna, K. (2016) Learning while (re)configuring: Business model 
innovation processes in established firms. Strategic Organization. [Online] 14 (3), 181–219. Available 
from: doi:10.1177/1476127016632758. 
Bocken, N. & Geradts, T.H.J. (2019) Barriers and drivers to sustainable business model innovation: 
Organization design and dynamic capabilities. Long Range Planning. [Online] 53 (4), 101950. 
Available from: doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2019.101950. 
Bocken, N., Miller, K. & Evans, S. (2016) Assessing the environmental impact of new Circular business models. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1060 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
In: ‘New Business Models’ - Exploring a Changing View on Organizing Value Creation. [Online]. 2016 
Toulouse. p. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/305264490. 
Bocken, N., Schuit, C.S.C. & Kraaijenhagen, C. (2018) Experimenting with a circular business model: Lessons 
from eight cases. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions. [Online] 28 (July 2017), 79–95. 
Available from: doi:10.1016/j.eist.2018.02.001. 
Bocken, N., Short, S.W., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice review to develop sustainable 
business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 65, 42–56. Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.039. 
Boons, F. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013) Business models for sustainable innovation: State-of-the-art and steps 
towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 45, 9–19. Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2012.07.007. 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Tiemann, I. (2018) Sustainability-oriented business model 
development: Principles, criteria and tools. International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing. 
[Online] 10 (2), 256–286. Available from: doi:10.1504/IJEV.2018.092715. 
Breuer, H. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2017) Values-based network and business model innovation. International 
Journal 
of 
Innovation 
Management. 
[Online] 
21 
(3), 
1–35. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1142/S1363919617500281. 
Carlile, P.R. (2004) Transferring, translating, and transforming: An integrative framework for managing 
knowledge across boundaries. Organization Science. [Online] 15 (5), 555–568. Available from: 
doi:10.1287/orsc.1040.0094. 
Ciulli, F. & Kolk, A. (2019) Incumbents and business model innovation for the sharing economy: Implications 
for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 214, 995–1010. Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.12.295. 
Davis, J.P. & Eisenhardt, K.M. (2011) Rotating Leadership and Collaborative Innovation: Recombination 
Processes in Symbiotic Relationships. Administrative Science Quarterly. [Online] 56 (2), 159–201. 
Available from: doi:10.1177/0001839211428131. 
Dentoni, D., Bitzer, V. & Pascucci, S. (2016) Cross-Sector Partnerships and the Co-creation of Dynamic 
Capabilities for Stakeholder Orientation. Journal of Business Ethics. [Online] 135 (1), 35–53. Available 
from: doi:10.1007/s10551-015-2728-8. 
Dentoni, D., Pinkse, J. & Lubberink, R. (2021) Linking Sustainable Business Models to Socio-Ecological 
Resilience Through Cross-Sector Partnerships: A Complex Adaptive Systems View. Business and 
Society. [Online] 60 (5), 1216–1252. Available from: doi:10.1177/0007650320935015. 
Dietrich, P., Eskerod, P., Dalcher, D. & Sandhawalia, B. (2010) The Dynamics of Collaboration in Multipartner 
Projects. 
Project 
Management 
Journal. 
[Online] 
41 
(4), 
59–78. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1002/pmj.20194. 
Escher, I. & Brzustewicz, P. (2020) Inter-organizational collaboration on projects supporting sustainable 
development goals: The company perspective. Sustainability (Switzerland). [Online] 12 (12). 
Available from: doi:10.3390/su12124969. 
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Van Fossen, K., et al. (2017) Business Model Innovation for 
Sustainability: Towards a Unified Perspective for Creation of Sustainable Business Models. Business 
Strategy and the Environment. [Online] 26 (5), 597–608. Available from: doi:10.1002/bse.1939. 
Fawcett, S.E., Fawcett, A.M., Watson, B.J. & Magnan, G.M. (2012) Peeking inside the black box: Toward an 
understanding of supply chain collaboration dynamics. Journal of Supply Chain Management. 
[Online] 48 (1), 44–72. Available from: doi:10.1111/j.1745-493X.2011.03241.x. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Bocken, N. & Jan, E. (2016) Design thinking to enhance the sustainable business modelling 
process - A workshop based on a value mapping process. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 135, 
1218–1232. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.07.020. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P. & Evans, S. (2017) The Cambridge Business Model Innovation Process. Procedia 
Manufacturing. 
[Online] 
8 
(October 
2016), 
262–269. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1016/j.promfg.2017.02.033. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1061 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D. & Evans, S. (2018) Sustainable business model innovation: A review. Journal 
of Cleaner Production. [Online] 198, 401–416. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.240. 
Heirati, N. & Siahtiri, V. (2019) Driving service innovativeness via collaboration with customers and suppliers: 
Evidence from business-to-business services. Industrial Marketing Management. [Online] 78 
(March), 6–16. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.indmarman.2017.09.008. 
Heyes, G., Sharmina, M., Mendoza, J.M.F., Gallego-Schmid, A., et al. (2018) Developing and implementing 
circular economy business models in service-oriented technology companies. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. [Online] 177, 621–632. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.12.168. 
Kazadi, K., Lievens, A. & Mahr, D. (2016) Stakeholder co-creation during the innovation process: Identifying 
capabilities for knowledge creation among multiple stakeholders. Journal of Business Research. 
[Online] 69 (2), 525–540. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2015.05.009. 
Keeling, D.I., Keeling, K., de Ruyter, K. & Laing, A. (2021) How value co-creation and co-destruction unfolds: a 
longitudinal perspective on dialogic engagement in health services interactions. Journal of the 
Academy of Marketing Science. [Online] 49 (2), 236–257. Available from: doi:10.1007/s11747-020-
00737-z. 
Langley, A. & Tsoukas, H. (2017) Introduction: Process thinking, Process theorizing and Process researching. 
In: The Sage Handbook of Process Organization Studies. p. 
Laukkanen, M. & Patala, S. (2014) Analysing barriers to sustainable business model innovations: Innovation 
systems approach. International Journal of Innovation Management. [Online] 18 (6). Available from: 
doi:10.1142/S1363919614400106. 
Lievens, A. & Blažević, V. (2021) A service design perspective on the stakeholder engagement journey during 
B2B innovation: Challenges and future research agenda. Industrial Marketing Management. [Online] 
95 (October 2020), 128–141. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.indmarman.2021.04.007. 
Majchrzak, A., Jarvenpaa, S.L. & Bagherzadeh, M. (2015) A Review of Interorganizational Collaboration 
Dynamics. 
Journal 
of 
Management. 
[Online] 
41 
(5), 
1338–1360. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1177/0149206314563399. 
Mendoza, J.M.F., Sharmina, M., Gallego-Schmid, A., Heyes, G., et al. (2017) Integrating Backcasting and Eco-
Design for the Circular Economy: The BECE Framework. Journal of Industrial Ecology. [Online] 21 (3), 
526–544. Available from: doi:10.1111/jiec.12590. 
Nardelli, G. & Broumels, M. (2018) MANAGING INNOVATION PROCESSES THROUGH VALUE CO-CREATION: A 
PROCESS CASE from BUSINESS-TO-BUSINESS SERVICE PRACTISE. International Journal of Innovation 
Management. [Online] 22 (3), 1–40. Available from: doi:10.1142/S1363919618500305. 
Oskam, I., Bossink, B. & de Man, A.-P. (2021) Valuing Value in Innovation Ecosystems: How Cross-Sector 
Actors Overcome Tensions in Collaborative Sustainable Business Model Development. Business & 
Society. [Online] 60 (5), 1059–1091. Available from: doi:10.1177/0007650320907145. 
Pieroni, M.P.P., McAloone, T.C. & Pigosso, D.C.A. (2019) Business model innovation for circular economy and 
sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 215, 198–216. 
Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.01.036. 
Reficco, E., Gutiérrez, R., Jaén, M.H. & Auletta, N. (2018) Collaboration mechanisms for sustainable 
innovation. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 203, 1170–1186. Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.08.043. 
Rey-Garcia, M., Mato-Santiso, V. & Felgueiras, A. (2021) Transitioning Collaborative Cross-Sector Business 
Models for Sustainability Innovation: Multilevel Tension Management as a Dynamic Capability. 
Business and Society. [Online] 60 (5), 1132–1173. Available from: doi:10.1177/0007650320949822. 
Reymen, I., Berends, H., Oudehand, R. & Stultiëns, R. (2017) Decision making for business model 
development: a process study of effectuation and causation in new technology-based ventures. R 
and D Management. [Online] 47 (4), 595–606. Available from: doi:10.1111/radm.12249. 
Rohrbeck, R., Konnertz, L. & Knab, S. (2013) Collaborative business modelling for systemic and sustainability 
innovations. International Journal of Technology Management. [Online] 63 (1–2), 4–23. Available 
from: doi:10.1504/IJTM.2013.055577. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1062 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Seawright, J. & Gerring, J. (2008) Case selection techniques in case study research. Political Research 
Quarterly. [Online] 61 (2), 294–308. Available from: doi:10.1177/1065912907313077. 
Sharma, A. & Kearins, K. (2011) Interorganizational collaboration for regional sustainability: What happens 
when organizational representatives come together? Journal of Applied Behavioral Science. [Online] 
47 (2), 168–203. Available from: doi:10.1177/0021886310381782. 
Sinkovics, N., Gunaratne, D., Sinkovics, R.R. & Molina-Castillo, F.-J. (2021) Sustainable Business Model 
Innovation: An Umbrella Review. Sustainability. [Online] 13 (13), 7266. Available from: 
doi:10.3390/su13137266. 
Sjödin, D., Parida, V., Jovanovic, M. & Visnjic, I. (2020) Value Creation and Value Capture Alignment in Business 
Model Innovation: A Process View on Outcome-Based Business Models. Journal of Product 
Innovation Management. [Online] 37 (2), 158–183. Available from: doi:10.1111/jpim.12516. 
Soosay, C.A. & Hyland, P. (2015) A decade of supply chain collaboration and directions for future research. 
Supply Chain Management: An International Journal. [Online] 20 (6), 613–630. Available from: 
doi:10.1108/SCM-06-2015-0217. 
Van Thiel, S. (2014) Research Methods in Public Administration and Public Management. [Online]. Available 
from: doi:10.1017/CBO9781107415324.004. 
Velter, M.G.E., Bitzer, V., Bocken, N. & Kemp, R. (2020) Sustainable business model innovation: The role of 
boundary work for multi-stakeholder alignment. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 247, 
119497. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.119497. 
Walrave, B., Talmar, M., Podoynitsyna, K.S., Romme, A.G.L., et al. (2017) A multi-level perspective on 
innovation ecosystems for path-breaking innovation. Technological Forecasting and Social Change. 
[Online] 136 (September 2015), 103–113. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.techfore.2017.04.011. 
Yin, R.K. (2003) Case Study Research - Design and Methods. 
Zott, C. & Amit, R. (2010) Business model design: An activity system perspective. Long Range Planning. 
[Online] 43 (2–3), 216–226. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.004. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1063 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The role of trust in service-based 
business models 
The case of the fashion industry 
Clarissa A. González Chávez1,*+, Doroteya Vladimirova2, Laetitia 
Forst3, Mélanie Despeisse1 and Björn Johansson1 
1Chalmers University of Technology; 2University of Cambridge; 
3University of the Arts London 
*clarissa.gonzalez@chalmers.se  
Abstract 
The need for a more sustainable industry has led many companies to explore new business models 
that better support their strategies for sustainable value capture. Evidence suggests that service-
based business models can enable product life cycle extension, strengthen relationships with 
customers, increase visibility of information and material loops, and reduce environmental impact. 
The fashion industry accounts for up to 10 percent of global greenhouse pollution, causing leading 
firms to explore greener alternatives. Digital platforms for sales and marketing can enhance trust 
and positively impact customer perception, thereby supporting the shift towards more sustainable 
businesses models. This study aims to understand the role of trust in service-based business 
models, mainly when addressing customers, using the case of the fashion industry to identify 
challenges and potential solutions. The method followed includes an integrative review of the role 
of trust in service-based business models and strategies used to develop trust. The findings from 
this review summarize the challenges faced by organizations when trust is missing, describe the 
role of trust in service-based business models along with identifying strategies that can support 
trust development. Further, the findings are positioned in the context of the fashion industry.  
Keywords  
Trust, service-based business models, servitization, sustainability, fashion 
Introduction 
The need to counteract the negative impacts from our linear economy call for immediate actions 
that promote more responsible production and consumption patterns. One of the strategies 
explored by firms is the shift to service-based business models, as it brings along benefits that 
include increased competitive advantage (Malleret, 2006; Kristensen & Remmen, 2019), new and 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1064 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
more stable sources of business income (Brax & Jonsson, 2009; Oliva & Kallenberg, 2003), extended 
lifecycle of product-service offerings (Mont, 2002), dematerialization through fewer tangible assets 
involved in economic transactions (Sharma & Singh, 2017), visibility of life-cycle data and increased 
sustainable value capture for stakeholders (Kristensen & Remmen, 2019). 
Leading companies are adopting longer-term views with trust-based relationships that pursue 
mutually beneficial objectives through service-based business models (Evans et al., 2017). This 
transition is not always easy, close collaboration within partnerships can be difficult to achieve, 
requiring trust and holistic commitments (Kowalkowski, 2011; Zhang & Banerji, 2017; Polova & 
Thomas, 2020).  
Research on trust in the marketing and organizational literature focuses on trustees’ ability, moral 
integrity, and benevolence of trustors (Mayer, Davis & Schoorman, 1995; Alhabeeb, 2007). In the 
servitization literature, trust is highlighted as one of the success factors to design service-based 
business models and realise business model transitions (Fliess & Lexutt, 2019), especially for holistic 
solutions with sustainability placed at the core of their value proposition, but the role trust plays in 
the development of sustainable service-based business models is not well understood. 
In the context of fashion, sustainability challenges and opportunities are high-priority (Forst et al., 
2021), leading the industry to explore new and potentially service-based, business models. This 
paper aims to clarify the role of trust in service-based business development by bringing together 
different schools of thought through an integrative literature review and developing a thematic 
synthesis that identifies the challenges faced by organizations that experience a lack of trust in the 
relationships with partners, particularly with consumers, and by exemplifying the role of trust in 
the case of the fashion industry.  
Conceptual framework 
Trust and its parameters across disciplines 
Trust has long been studied in the fields of Sociology, Psychology, Computer Sciences, Engineering, 
Management and Economics. One of the most used definitions of trust, by Sako and Helper (1998), 
defines it as “expectation held by an agent that its trading partner will behave in a mutually 
acceptable manner, with the expectation that neither party will exploit the other's vulnerabilities”, 
which highlights the elements that relate to affective human nature (McKnight & Chervany, 1996), 
making it difficult to measure it (Glaeser et al., 2000). 
In response to long-held criticism of research about trust, including lack of consensus, vagueness 
and imprecision, PytlikZillig and Kimbrough (2016) suggest reducing ambiguity by defining more 
precisely the elements and dimensions of trust.  For example, e-commerce has focused on how 
trust can support connections with customers when digital platforms and customer service are 
major differentiation elements for businesses, placing trust as an enabler of competitive advantage 
(Vaclavik et al., 2020). Therefore, this study focuses its efforts in the relationships between 
customers and the supplying firm.  
Service-based business models 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1065 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The increase in interest of firms to expand their offerings through services, has emerged due to the 
high level of competition in many markets, the constant pressure for companies to be responsive, 
faster communication, and decreased product margins, among many other motives. This has led 
companies to transition from a product-centred to a service-centred business model (Gebauer et 
al., 2005). 
However, since Vandermerwe and Rada (1988) first introduced servitization, they also 
acknowledged that it creates challenges for top management. Since then, despite different 
definitions and approaches, challenges in service-based business model have become a central 
theme in the literature discussion. One of the most general concepts within service-based business 
models is product-service systems (PSS). In their definition, Annarelli et al. (2016) suggest PSS as a 
market proposition focused on the final user’s needs rather than on the production process, which 
can allow a need fulfilment system with radically lower impacts and enhanced environmental and 
social benefits. It must be clarified that PSS is not, by definition, a circular business model, but some 
studies have suggested that it could help organisations reach sustainability targets (Antikainen et 
al. 2018). 
Method 
This paper presents a conceptual research work combining evidence from secondary sources with 
previously developed concepts and theories (Hirschheim, 2008). The literature study adopted an 
integrative approach (Snyder, 2019) in three steps to combine different perspectives to create a 
new conceptual model (Figure 1).  
Articles were selected through searches including the keywords “trust”, “servitization”, “service-
based business model”, “sustain*” and “fashion”. The articles found through the combination of 
these keywords in Scopus were not extensive, as only 52 articles were identified in the fields of 
Engineering, Social Sciences and Business and Management. An initial selection of highly cited 
articles in the literature on trust development was used for snowballing, with additional articles 
recommended by experts in the field of servitization, which provided a total of 23 articles. Further, 
trends were identified through an inductive process to connect trust with available literature on 
service-based business models. The analysis results are synthesised into themes to provide an 
overview of current research and summarise incentives, influencing factors and trust-building 
mechanisms to support the development of sustainable service-based model.  
 
FIGURE 14. RESEARCH PROCESS FOR INTEGRATIVE REVIEW ADAPTED FROM CRONIN AND GEORGE (2020) 
Findings 
Trust in relation to service-based business models  
Step 1: Choose purpose of 
synthesis
Understand the role of trust in 
developing service-based business 
model in the fashion industry
Step 2: Literature review
Identify trends in trust development, 
servitization and sustainable business 
models in the fashion industry
Step 3: Thematic synthesis
•
Integrate themes and 
summarise findings (incentives, 
influencing factors and trust-
building mechanisms) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1066 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
The ambiguity around trust and how it can be assessed (Vaclavik et al., 2020) is exemplified in the 
different types of relationships where trust plays a role. For instance, organizational trust is 
required in business-to-business environments, where benefits can be seen in supply chain 
relationships, lower transaction costs, increased value-creation opportunities, and enhanced 
collaborative learning (Jones et al., 2010). Then, customer of trust is required to improve 
relationships with customers and the way they perceive products and services (Alhabeeb, 2007) 
potentially leading to customer loyalty. 
Trust is particularly important in service-based business models as traditional market rules do not 
apply equally and regulations are yet to be generated. Also, research has shown that relationships 
mediated by contracts alone fail to support business model innovation activities (Charterina, 
Landeta & Basterretxea, 2018). In such scenarios, organizational trust can promote stronger 
connections and more transparent processes (Bachmann, 2001).  
Developing trust is not simple, as the concept is abstract by nature and trust-building mechanisms 
vary across industrial sectors and organization types. Dominic, Ahmad and Aziz (2013) proposed for 
firms to internally develop four elements: reliability, competence, openness and identification. 
Whereas Chopra and Meindl (2013) suggested four steps that remodel the relationships with 
others: (1) consider the relationship value, (2) stipulate operational tasks and decision rights, (3) 
create effective contracts and (4) design effective solutions to conflicts.  
Service-based business models require tight connections and careful selection of collaborators 
across the value chain, such as suppliers. Different levels of abstraction have been proposed to deal 
with such complexity. In a recent contribution, Arvidsson and Melander (2020) proposed three 
main levels of trust that can manifest when selecting partners: interpersonal, organizational, inter-
organizational and network trust.  
The lack of trust across collaborating organizations was recurrently mentioned in literature as a 
challenge; business owners often feel that cooperation and collaboration can increase vulnerability 
and can be taken advantage of by other members of a network (Lydeka & Adomavičius, 2007). Thus, 
businesses are reluctant to put themselves in a weak position or to share information. Failing to 
overcome these situations harms value chains and intended business collaborations. The extent of 
such harm, as described in three selected articles, is described in further detail in Table 1.  
TABLE 1. CHALLENGES FACED BY ORGANIZATIONS IN THE ABSENCE OF TRUST 
Reference 
Challenges and potential negative scenarios 
Oxborrow 
and 
Brindley (2012) 
• Deteriorated collaborative relationships, limiting their potential for adding value 
• Restricts information sharing 
• Constraints long-term potential for success 
Chopra 
and 
Meindl (2013) 
• Restricted information sharing between organizations 
• Available data is ignored as it is not trusted 
• Duplication of efforts 
• Opportunistic behaviour 
• Business activities are perceived in silos instead of from a holistic perspective 
• Lack of responsibility from stakeholders to face problems, becoming enemies rather 
than partners. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1067 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Lascaux (2020) 
• Firms participating in collaborative networks where there is lack of trust might attempt 
to ‘outlearn’ other partners by absorbing novel knowledge rapidly and ceasing 
cooperative efforts as soon as they reach their learning objectives in a cooperative 
project 
 
The role of trust in stakeholder collaboration and how it can be developed in service-oriented 
organizations to overcome the previously presented challenges is summarised in Table 2.  
TABLE 2. ROLE AND ENABLERS OF TRUST IN SERVITIZED ENVIRONMENTS 
Reference 
Role of trust 
Enabling practices and activities to develop trust 
Lydeka and 
Adomavičius (2007) 
• Enabler 
of 
cooperative 
ventures 
• Start with small projects to evaluate how 
potential 
partners 
react 
and 
evaluate 
compatibility. 
Fawcett, Jones and 
Fawcett (2012) 
• Essential 
element 
of 
relational architecture.  
• Promotes 
collaborative 
innovation strategies. 
• Enables the analysis of value 
creation potential 
• Information 
sharing 
through 
digital 
technologies 
• RFI Codes to enable transactional trust 
• Information sharing across value chains 
• Perform 
according 
to 
promises 
and 
agreements 
Oxborrow and 
Brindley (2012) 
• Critical 
elements 
to 
the 
development 
of 
mutually 
beneficial relationships 
• Upstream 
relationships 
and 
trust 
are 
supported by geographical proximity rather 
than culture. 
Chopra and Meindl 
(2013) 
• Enabler for supply chain 
responsiveness at lower cost. 
• Information sharing 
• Changing of incentives 
• Operational improvements 
• Stabilization of pricing 
• Clear identification of roles and decision rights 
for all parties 
•  Effective contracts 
• Good conflict resolution mechanisms 
Fantazy, Tipu and 
Kumar (2016) 
• Informal 
mechanism 
that 
determines the degree of 
cooperation between supply 
chain partners in the absence 
of 
formal 
cooperation 
strategies. 
• Small number of collaborators.  
• Commitment mechanisms such as risk-reward 
sharing.  
• Shift focus from physical goods towards 
managing knowledge as an intangible asset 
 
Arvidsson and 
Melander (2020) 
• Enabler 
for 
contractual 
agreements in situations of 
high uncertainty 
• Building individual relationships between 
organization representatives can lead to trust 
in the whole organizations.  
 
Integrating the findings from the literature together into themes, several incentives, influencing 
factors and trust-building mechanisms were identified in Figure 2.  
First, the trust relationships are presented in two main levels, consumer trust towards a product or 
service, and trust towards institutions and organizations, which relates to firm’s trustworthiness 
from a customer’s perspective. This division is described by Alhabeeb (2007) as consequential of 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1068 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
the trust that consumers have towards products and services, leading to loyalty that further 
translates into trust towards the organization.  
In organizations undergoing a servitization process, the boundaries of the firm have been said to 
be blurry, most companies require collaboration between stakeholders to build product-service 
systems. In some cases, the divisions are vertically integrated, and in others the system is integrated 
through modularity in collaboration with third parties (Huikkola et al., 2020). To exemplify the need 
for collaboration, Figure 2 located three company units as the object of institutional trust, with the 
intention of visually distinguishing the need for collaboration and alignment of company’s 
objectives and the consideration of the dynamic interplay of firms' boundaries when moving 
towards servitization (Huikkola et al., 2020).  
Some incentives and motives for customers to place their trust in product-services are summarized 
and listed as: economic rewards as opposed to different alternatives in the market, perceived 
sustainability (option considered to be more environmentally-friendly and efficient in terms of 
energy or promote more sustainable sourcing), enjoyment and fun attached to the product-service 
consumption or usage, quality and reliability of the product-service and security of the good 
functioning of the product-service (Vaclavik et al., 2020). 
Also, there are influencing factors that influence the willingness to engage in trust-based 
relationships. The following list synthetizes some of the most recurrent findings: geographical 
location (Oxborrow & Brindley, 2012), historical relationship with the company or “historical 
residue” (Fisman & Khanna, 1999), culture compatibility (Liu & Ma, 2017), environment and 
situational normality of competence benevolence and integrity (McKnight et al., 2002), level of 
uncertainty in the decision-making process (Mcknight et al., 2011), power as a mechanism to 
regulate and control the dynamics between social relationships and social actors (Bachmann, 2001).  
However, trust can also be developed in cases where it is not the predominant description of the 
dynamic between actors through activities that increase competences, promote openness and 
communication, share information (Chopra & Meindl, 2013). 
The findings of this section are summarized in Figure 2.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1069 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
 
FIGURE 2. THE ROLE OF TRUST IN SERVICE-BASED BUSINESS MODELS  
Trust in a service-based fashion industry 
The fashion industry needs innovative business models to reduce their environmental footprint, as 
it notoriously lacks in transparency and the trust this affords (Fashion Revolution, 2020). Business 
model innovation in the fashion sector is influenced by new supply chain relationships, off-shoring, 
emerging markets; shared infrastructures, industry training provision, specialist universities, 
resilient logistics, and sympathetic financial institutions (Oxborrow & Brindley, 2012). In this 
context, the use of transparency tools such as blockchain can lead to fair and self-regulating systems 
with multiple points of control and action (Forst et al., 2021). Service-based business models offer 
many opportunities to impact a product’s lifecycle from raw material extraction to care, 
maintenance and disposal (Armstrong et al., 2015), and could support the sustainability transition 
of the fashion industry.   
Trust in the context of sustainable fashion can be defined as a “consumer's confidence in a firm's 
reliability and integrity and is related to the willingness to engage with that firm despite the risks 
involved” (Stathopoulou & Balabanis, 2016). Consumer trust is one of the prerequisites for 
developing more sustainable offerings in the fashion industry (Forst et al., 2021) and getting 
consumers to buy product with ethical claims (Liu et al., 2021).  
As alternative strategies, some firms have attempted to offer sustainable fashion through loyalty 
programs. For these strategies to work it is imperative that consumers trust the companies to 
handle and protect their personal information reliably, in such cases trust comes as a counterpart 
to the concept of control in future scenarios for designers and developers in the fashion industry 
(Williams et al., 2021).  
Lack of trust in service-based fashion is a major obstacle for the success of transitioning companies. 
Some identified concerns from customers towards service-based fashion offerings that relate to 
continuation of the business, durability, size and quality issues, control over final version of 
garments, and hygiene concerns. Documented case studies such as the one presented (Armstrong 
Influencing 
Factors
Historical 
relationship
Power
Culture
Uncertainty
Geography
Environment
Incentives
Perceived 
sustainability
Security risk
Economic rewards
Quality
Enjoyment through 
product-service
TRUST
Institutional
Product-Service
Competence 
development
Openness
Reliability
Communication
Empathy and 
support
Transparent and 
timely data sharing
Mechanisms
build

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1070 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
et al., 2015), where the potential of fashion was explored in the context of use-oriented product-
service systems, show that lack of trust in the provider is a major contributing factor to the negative 
perception of such models. Also, other modes of consumption were explored in a study, utility-
based non-ownership and redistributed ownership, which aimed to extend previous research work 
including three key relationship structures, consumer-product, consumer-consumer and consumer-
organization (Park & Armstrong, 2017).  
Conclusions 
The current study explores the role of trust in service-based business models, illustrating it within 
the case of the fashion industry.  The contribution of this study to literature on service-based 
business models is threefold. First, through a literature review, it highlights the main contributions 
from different schools of thought to knowledge about trust and summarizes potential challenges 
that companies can face when there is absence of trust in their operations and they relationships 
with other stakeholders. Second, this study synthetizes the role of trust according to a range of 
academical contributions and lists the most recurrent and relevant enabling activities for 
organizations to develop trust. Third, it provides a framework that illustrates the two main types of 
trust required in service-based business models, trust towards the product/service and 
organizational trust, identifying the main motivators for customers to trust both the systems 
provided and the companies involved. The findings of this work contribute to theory by connecting 
the literature in the field of trust with that of service-based business models. Further, it can support 
practitioners by providing clarification on the mechanisms that can support the development trust 
with their customers when offering service-based business models. However, the exploration of 
more cases in the fashion industry where the motivators and enabling actions for trust 
development are tested, remains an important focus in future empirical studies.  
References 
Fashion Transparency Index (2020) In: Revolution, F. (ed.). 
Alhabeeb, M. J. (2007) On consumer trust and product loyalty. International Journal of Consumer Studies, 31, 
609-612. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1470-6431.2007.00622.x. 
Annarelli, A., Battistella, C., & Nonino, F. (2016) Product service system: A conceptual framework from a 
systematic review. Journal of Cleaner Production, 139, 1011-1032. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.08.061. 
Antikainen, M., Uusitalo, T., & Kivikytö-Reponen, P. (2018) Digitalisation as an enabler of circular economy. 
Procedia CIRP, 73, 45-49. Available from https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procir.2018.04.027. 
Armstrong, C. M., Niinimäki, K., Kujala, S., Karell, E. & Lang, C. (2015) Sustainable product-service systems for 
clothing: exploring consumer perceptions of consumption alternatives in Finland. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 97, 30-39. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2014.01.046. 
Arvidsson, A. & Melander, L. (2020) The multiple levels of trust when selecting suppliers – Insights from an 
automobile manufacturer. Industrial Marketing Management, 87, 138-149. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2020.02.011. 
Bachmann, R. (2001) Trust, Power and Control in Trans-Organizational Relations. Organization Studies, 22, 
337-365. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1177/0170840601222007. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1071 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Brax, S. A. & Jonsson, K. (2009) Developing integrated solution offerings for remote diagnostics: A 
comparative case study of two manufacturers. International Journal of Operations & Production 
management. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1108/01443570910953621. 
Charterina, J., Landeta, J. & Basterretxea, I. (2018) Mediation effects of trust and contracts on knowledge-
sharing and product innovation. European Journal of Innovation Management, 21, 274-293. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1108/EJIM-03-2017-0030. 
Chopra, S. & Meindl, P. (2013) Supply Chain Management. [Electronic resource] : Strategy, Planning, and 
Operation, Pearson. 
Dominic, P., Ahmad, R. & Ab. Aziz, N. (2013) Trust-based partner identification method for e-supply chain 
(B2B) integrator–a case study of Malaysian construction industry. International Journal of Logistics 
Systems and Management, 14, 93-109. Available from: doi: 10.1504/IJLSM.2013.051022. 
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Van Fossen, K., Yang, M., Silva, E. A. & Barlow, C. Y. (2017) Business 
Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a Unified Perspective for Creation of Sustainable 
Business Models. Business Strategy and the Environment, 26, 597-608. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.1939. 
Fantazy, K. A., Tipu, S. A. A. & Kumar, V. (2016) Conceptualizing the relative openness of supply chain and its 
impact on organizational performance. Benchmarking: An International Journal, 23, 1264-1285. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1108/BIJ-05-2015-0045. 
Fawcett, S. E., Jones, S. L. & Fawcett, A. M. (2012) Supply chain trust: The catalyst for collaborative innovation. 
Business Horizons, 55, 163-178. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2011.11.004. 
Fisman, R. & Khanna, T. (1999) Is trust a historical residue? Information flows and trust levels. Journal of 
Economic Behavior & Organization, 38, 79-92. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-
2681(98)00123-1. 
Fliess, S. & Lexutt, E. (2019) How to be successful with servitization – Guidelines for research and 
management. 
Industrial 
Marketing 
Management, 
78, 
58-75. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2017.11.012. 
Forst, L., Vladimirova, D., Williams, D. & Evans, S. (2021) Re-Modelling Fashion through Scenario Planning: 
Conceptual scenarios informing design practices. International Conference of New Business Models. 
Halmstad, 
Sweden. 
9-11 
June 
2021. 
Available 
from: 
https://ualresearchonline.arts.ac.uk/id/eprint/17407/1/Re-
Modelling%20NBM%20Conference%20Fashion%20through%20Scenario%20Planning.pdf 
Gebauer, H., Fleisch, E., & Friedli, T. (2005) Overcoming the Service Paradox in Manufacturing Companies. 
European 
management 
journal, 
23(1), 
14-26. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2004.12.006. 
Glaeser, E. L., Laibson, D. I., Scheinkman, J. A. & Soutter, C. L. (2000) Measuring Trust. The Quarterly Journal 
of Economics, 115, 811-846. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1162/003355300554926. 
Hirschheim, R. (2008) Some Guidelines for the Critical Reviewing of Conceptual Papers. Journal of the 
Association for Information Systems, 9, 432-441. Available from: doi: 10.17705/1jais.00167 
Huikkola, T., Rabetino, R., Kohtamäki, M. & Gebauer, H. (2020) Firm boundaries in servitization: Interplay and 
repositioning practices. Industrial Marketing Management, 90, 90-105. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2020.06.014. 
Jones, S. L., Fawcett, S. E., Fawcett, A. M. & Wallin, C. (2010) Benchmarking trust signals in supply chain 
alliances: moving toward a robust measure of trust. Benchmarking: An International Journal, 17, 
705-727. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1108/14635771011076452. 
Kowalkowski, C. (2011) Dynamics of value propositions: insights from service‐dominant logic. European 
Journal of Marketing. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1108/03090561111095702. 
Kristensen, H. S. & Remmen, A. (2019) A framework for sustainable value propositions in product-service 
systems. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
223, 
25-35. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.03.074. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1072 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Lascaux, A. (2020) Coopetition and trust: What we know, where to go next. Industrial Marketing 
Management, 84, 2-18. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2019.05.015. 
Liu, Y., Liu, M. T., Pérez, A., Chan, W., Collado, J. & Mo, Z. (2021) The importance of knowledge and trust for 
ethical fashion consumption. Asia Pacific Journal of Marketing and Logistics, 33, 1175-1194. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1108/APJML-02-2020-0081. 
Liu, Z. & Ma, L. (2017) Building Trust Relationship in Cross-Cultural Collaboration: Case Studies on Two Chinese 
Animation Companies. Transcontinental Strategies for Industrial Development and Economic 
Growth. IGI Global. 
Lydeka, Z. & Adomavičius, B. (2007) Cooperation among the competitors in international cargo transportation 
sector: key factors to success. Engineering Economics, 51. 
Malleret, V. (2006) Value Creation through Service Offers. European Management Journal, 24, 106-116. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2005.12.012. 
Mayer, R. C., Davis, J. H. & Schoorman, F. D. (1995) An integrative model of organizational trust. Academy of 
management review, 20, 709-734. Available from: https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.1995.9508080335. 
Mcknight, D. H., Carter, M., Thatcher, J. B. & Clay, P. F. (2011) Trust in a specific technology: An investigation 
of its components and measures. ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems (TMIS), 
2, 1-25. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1145/1985347.1985353. 
Mcknight, D. H., Choudhury, V. & Kacmar, C. (2002) Developing and validating trust measures for e-
commerce: An integrative typology. Information systems research, 13, 334-359. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1287/isre.13.3.334.81. 
Mont, O. K. (2002) Clarifying the concept of product–service system. Journal of Cleaner Production, 10, 237-
245. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/S0959-6526(01)00039-7. 
Oliva, R. & Kallenberg, R. (200). Managing the transition from products to services. International Journal of 
Service 
Industry 
Management, 
14, 
160-172. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1108/09564230310474138. 
Oxborrow, L. & Brindley, C. (2012) Regional resilience in recessionary times: a case study of the East Midlands. 
International 
Journal 
of 
Retail 
& 
Distribution 
Management. 
Available 
from: 
doi: 
10.1108/09590551211267629. 
Park, H. & Armstrong, C.M.J. (2017) Collaborative apparel consumption in the digital sharing economy: An 
agenda for academic inquiry. International Journal of Consumer Studies. 465-474. Available from: 
DOI: 10.1111/ijcs.12354 
Polova, O. & Thomas, C. 2020. How to perform collaborative servitization innovation projects: the role of 
servitization maturity. Industrial Marketing Management, 90, 231-251. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2020.06.005. 
Pytlikzillig, L. M. & Kimbrough, C. D. 2016. Consensus on conceptualizations and definitions of trust: Are we 
there yet? Interdisciplinary perspectives on trust, 17-47. Available from: doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-
22261-5_2. 
Sako, M. & Helper, S. 1998. Determinants of trust in supplier relations: Evidence from the automotive industry 
in Japan and the United States. Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization, 34, 387-417. Available 
from: https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-2681(97)00082-6. 
Sharma, M. G. & Singh, K. N. 2017. Servitization, Coopetition, and Sustainability: An Operations Perspective 
in 
Aviation 
Industry. 
Vikalpa, 
42, 
145-152. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0256090917721772. 
Snyder, H. 2019. Literature review as a research methodology: An overview and guidelines. Journal of 
Business Research, 104, 333-339. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2019.07.039. 
Stathopoulou, A. & Balabanis, G. 2016. The effects of loyalty programs on customer satisfaction, trust, and 
loyalty toward high- and low-end fashion retailers. Journal of Business Research, 69, 5801-5808. 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2016.04.177. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1073 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Vaclavik, M. C., Macke, J. & Faturi E Silva, D. 2020. ‘Do not talk to strangers’: A study on trust in Brazilian 
ridesharing 
apps. 
Technology 
in 
Society, 
63, 
101379. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techsoc.2020.101379. 
Vandermerwe, S., & Rada, J. (1988) Servitization of Business: Adding Value by Adding Services. European 
management journal, 6, 314-324. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/0263-2373(88)90033-3. 
Williams, D., Forst, L., Vladimirova, D. & Evans, S. 2021. Building our worlds: co-developing future scenarios 
as a methodology for fashion researchers and designer-innovators. EAD 2021 Safe Harbours for 
Design Research, 11-15 October 2021 
Zhang, W. & Banerji, S. 2017. Challenges of servitization: A systematic literature review. Industrial Marketing 
Management, 65, 217-227. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.indmarman.2017.06.003. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1074 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
A Fourth-Order Design Playbook For 
Circular Economy Business Models  
 
Raz Godelnik1  
1Parsons School of Design – The New School  
*godelnir@newschool.edu  
Extended abstract 
The circular economy (CE) offers a compelling pathway towards a meaningful sustainable change 
in business. It presents an innovative approach to address critical environmental challenges that 
can produce tremendous economic value (Lacy and Rutqvist, 2015; Lacy, Long and Spindler, 2020). 
In addition to companies, the CE also offers consumers a positive outlook on the future. As Cline 
(2021, 33) notes: “Circularity promises an exciting world of technological progress where we can 
have it all – the trendiest jean silhouette, the latest gadgets, single-use plastics – without harming 
the planet”. With such a premise it is not surprising to see the growing interest in CE business 
models, which are “based on using as little resources for as long as possible, while extracting as 
much value as possible in the process.” (Geissdoerfer et al., 2020, p. 2). 
While there is a growing hype around the CE, its implementation has been limited so far (Bocken, 
Ritala and Huotari, 2017; Circle Economy, 2021). At the same time, from a design perspective, 
companies have been busy, working to redesign their products, business models, and value chains 
according to circularity principles. Circular design guides have been produced by companies such 
as Nike and Ikea, articulating design principles and processes aiming to support ambitious goals. 
For example, IKEA proposes to only offer circular products by 2030 (Pownall, 2019). For the most 
part, these design efforts are grounded in a business mindset that still prioritizes growth and profit 
maximization, touting the concept of decoupling growth of economic activity from the consumption 
of finite resources as an organizing principle. This approach tends to end up with relatively limited 
impact, bringing up questions about the ability of CE to deliver on its premise to create sustainable 
value overall (Corvellec, Stowell and Johansson, 2021).  
The challenges of the CE to generate a significant contribution to a sustainable redesign of the 
production and consumption systems (Hofmann, 2019) echoes the challenges of taking a more 
radical design approach in a system that is still dominated by a shareholder capitalism mental 
model, even if a more nuanced one (Godelnik, 2021). We can see examples for this state, defined 
as sustainability-as-usual (Godelnik, 2021), in the focus of companies on closing material loops 
rather than on slowing them, especially with strategies involving design for longer-life products. 
The latter requires companies to radically modify their current business model, which is why 
companies like Apple and H&M are more invested in improving the recycling of their products than 
in redesigning them to prolong their life cycle in the first place.  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1075 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
This state of affairs of the CE also represents a failure from a design standpoint. Certainly, there are 
many examples where design plays an effective role in enabling circular advancements, from 
upstream innovation of packaging solutions (The Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 2020) to user-
centered clothing rental and resale platforms (e.g., Rent the Runway and thredUP respectively). 
However, these examples reflect a narrower interpretation of design thinking, echoing Buchanan’s 
(2015) first-order of design (invention), which he describes as “the creation of new ideas that depart 
from what is already established and accepted and that form the beginnings of innovation.” (15). 
What is missing is the type of design thinking that Buchanan (2015) describes as fourth-order 
design, in which designers provide a broader perspective of integration and evaluation of 
innovations. The focus of the fourth-order shifts from the design of products to the design of the 
environments and systems in which these products exist, i.e. “on human systems, the integration 
of information, physical artifacts, and interactions in environments of living, working, playing, and 
learning.” (Buchanan, 2001, p. 12). 
The lack of systemic contextualization in the design approach to CE solutions, in which problems 
are addressed in a siloed manner, leads to companies spending time, money, and effort to come 
up with solutions like a recyclable cap for a ketchup bottle (Kraft Heinz, 2021) instead of utilizing 
these resources into creating far more systemic and sustainable solutions. The question then is how 
to shift companies from a first-order design thinking approach to a fourth-order approach that 
could inform CE business models that go beyond sustainability-as-usual?  
To do so, the author has been developing a playbook that is informed by the notion of the fourth-
order design as an exercise in widening the context of design thinking or the task horizons as Golsby-
Smith (1996) puts it. More specifically the playbook takes a strategic design approach, drawing on 
Hill’s (2012) metaphor of “dark matter”, which alludes to the criticality of the invisible systemic 
elements (dark matter) in the creation of products (matter). Similarly, the playbook focuses on the 
conditions that are critical to creating circular business models (CBMs) with substantial 
sustainability impact, taking a more systemic approach to change the focal point from the matter 
(CE practices) to the dark matter, i.e. the structural elements and relationships that shape the CE 
practices. 
Inspired by the Omidyar Group’s (2017) systems practice journey map, the initial versions of the 
playbook presented in this paper have been developed, revised, and experimented with in a 
“Design of Business” course at Parsons School of Design. The step-by-step playbook, which includes 
five phases (see Figure 1), offers the integration of numerous design, strategy, and systems tools to 
help connect the context in which the company operates with the content of developing meaningful 
CE business model. The phases included in the playbook are as follows: 
Phase 0: Getting ready - understanding the moment (e.g., what are the taken-for-granted 
assumptions that are no longer valid), envisioning a desired future & planning for the journey ahead 
(Tools: Backcasting, Strategic inflection point, Golden circle). 
Phase 1: Gaining clarity - developing a deeper realization of the system in which the company 
operates and the forces shaping it (Tools: System mapping, Concern Canvas). 
Phase 2: Finding opportunities - exploring opportunities for transformational (meaningful) 
innovations (Tools: Three horizons, analysis of material flows). 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1076 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Phase 3: Acting strategically - taking a strategic approach to exploiting the opportunities identified 
in phase 2 (tools: Strategic choice structuring process, business model canvas). 
Phase 4: Prototyping, learning, adopting – moving to prototype and test innovations (Tools: the 
iterative process of business concept design, testing cards). 
Figure 1. CE Playbook 
 
 
In addition to presenting the playbook in detail, the paper will present a concrete example of 
working with it, which is developed this semester in a workshop with design students. Overall, the 
CE playbook offers a novel perspective to the consideration of the role of design thinking in 
developing CBMs that could offer a more substantial sustainability impact. It conceptualizes the 
possibility of moving beyond first-order design to fourth-order design, demonstrating the potential 
of a broader and more strategic approach to design to help open up the current sustainability-as-
usual boundaries of CE.  
The paper is contributes to the CBMs and circular business model innovation (CBMI) literature in 
two main ways: First, it presents a framework supporting the notion that “the creation of CBMs 
requires a systematic point of view as well as the inclusion of the company's ecosystem, which 
consists of multiple stakeholders, in the innovation process” (Bocken, Harsch and Weissbrod, 2022, 
p. 800). Second, it exhibits the potential of strategic design to play a more meaningful part in 
shaping CBMs. Rather than just using it to consider the factors of desirability, feasibility, and 
viability (Bocken, Harsch and Weissbrod, 2022), the playbook applies strategic design early at the 
initial stages of the innovation process where it considers big-picture questions and can create more 
value (Boyer, 2020). 
With the growing hopes that the CE will play a key role in advancing a sustainable post-Covid 
recovery (Cifuentes-Faura, 2021), the playbook could help provide companies and policymakers 
with much-needed guidance on how to utilize CE to achieve ambitious goals. 
Keywords  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1077 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Circular economy, design thinking, strategic design, sustainability, business model design.  
References  
Bocken, N. M. P., Harsch, A. and Weissbrod, I. (2022) ‘Circular business models for the fastmoving consumer 
goods industry: Desirability, feasibility, and viability’, Sustainable Production and Consumption. 
Elsevier, 30, pp. 799–814. doi: 10.1016/J.SPC.2022.01.012. 
Bocken, N. M. P., Ritala, P. and Huotari, P. (2017) ‘The Circular Economy: Exploring the Introduction of the 
Concept Among S\&P 500 Firms’, Journal of Industrial Ecology, 21(3), pp. 487–490. doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1111/jiec.12605. 
Boyer, B. (2020) ‘Helsinki Design Lab Ten Years Later’, She Ji: The Journal of Design, Economics, and 
Innovation. Elsevier, 6(3), pp. 279–300. doi: 10.1016/J.SHEJI.2020.07.001. 
Buchanan, R. (2001) ‘Design Research and the New Learning’, Design Issues.  MIT Press  238 Main St., Suite 
500, Cambridge, MA 02142-1046 USA journals-info@mit.edu  , 17(4), pp. 3–23. doi: 
10.1162/07479360152681056. 
Buchanan, R. (2015) ‘Worlds in the Making: Design, Management, and the Reform of Organizational Culture’, 
She Ji: The Journal of Design, Economics, and Innovation, 1(1), pp. 5–21. doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sheji.2015.09.003. 
Cifuentes-Faura, J. (2021) ‘Circular Economy and Sustainability as a Basis for Economic Recovery Post-COVID-
19’, Circular Economy and Sustainability. doi: 10.1007/s43615-021-00065-6. 
Circle Economy (2021) The Circularity Gap Report 2021. Amsterdam. 
Cline, E. L. (2021) ‘Will the Circular Economy Save the Planet?’, Sierra, Jan/Feb, pp. 28–33. 
Corvellec, H., Stowell, A. F. and Johansson, N. (2021) ‘Critiques of the circular economy’, Journal of Industrial 
Ecology, pp. 1–12. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/jiec.13187. 
Geissdoerfer, M. et al. (2020) ‘Circular business models: A review’, Journal of Cleaner Production, p. 123741. 
doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.123741. 
Godelnik, R. (2021) Rethinking Corporate Sustainability in the Era of Climate Crisis, Rethinking Corporate 
Sustainability in the Era of Climate Crisis. Cham, Switzerland: Palgrave Macmillan. 
Golsby-Smith, T. (1996) ‘Fourth Order Design: A Practical Perspective’, Design Issues. The MIT Press, 12(1), 
pp. 5–25. doi: 10.2307/1511742. 
Hill, D. (2012) Dark Matter and Trojan Horses: A Strategic Design Vocabulary. Moscow: Strelka Press. 
Hofmann, F. (2019) ‘Circular business models: Business approach as driver or obstructer of sustainability 
transitions?’, 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
Elsevier, 
224, 
pp. 
361–374. 
doi: 
10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2019.03.115. 
Kraft Heinz (2021) Heinz Tomato Ketchup Introduces First 100% Recyclable Cap Delivering the Perfect, Eco-
Friendly Squeeze! Available at: https://bit.ly/37vxrqE (Accessed: 13 February 2022). 
Lacy, P., Long, J. and Spindler, W. (2020) The Circular Economy Handbook: Realizing the Circular Advantage. 
London, UK: Palgrave Macmillan. 
Lacy, P. and Rutqvist, J. (2015) Waste to Wealth: The Circular Economy Advantage. London, UK: Springer. 
Omidyar 
Group 
(2017) 
Systems 
Practice. 
Washington, 
DC. 
Available 
at: 
https://docs.kumu.io/content/Workbook-012617.pdf. 
Pownall, A. (2019) ‘We’re looking at a change of our total business’ says IKEA sustainability chief Lena Pripp-
Kovac, Dezeen. Available at: https://bit.ly/3re8F5z (Accessed: 15 February 2022). 
The Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2020) Upstream Innovation: A guide to packaging solutions . Available at: 
https://emf.thirdlight.com/link/aiqpsmx35l7n-bll86j/@/#id=0 (Accessed: 13 February 2022). 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1078 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Business Model Innovation in 
Circular Economy contexts: the focus 
on Systems Thinking, Design, 
Technology and the hidden role of 
Collaboration 
 
Simona Grande1,2,* 
1Università degli Studi di Torino, Department of Management; 
2Universitetet i Agder, School of Business and Law 
*simona.grande@unito.it 
Extended abstract 
The linear economy, with its ‘take, make, waste’ model where materials are extracted, consumed, 
and discarded, is increasingly being questioned (European Commission, 2020). Climate change and 
ecosystems degradation, together with a growing demand for food and energy, force us to seek 
new paths of production and consumption (Willett et al., 2019). There is an urgent need for a shift 
towards new paradigms led by holistic, multidimensional, multidisciplinary and multi-stakeholder 
approaches. These so-called “grand challenges” by nature cannot be solved by a single actor or 
organization (Ferraro et al., 2015) and require collaboration, co-creation, dialogue and integration 
of diverse understandings (George et al., 2016). Globally, this has been acknowledged by the signing 
of the Paris Agreement and the adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The circular 
economy (CE) has been identified as a particularly promising approach to tackling these wicked 
problems and implementing the debated concept of sustainable development (Ghisellini et al., 
2016). By circular economy we normally mean, using its prominent definition, a system that is 
restorative or regenerative by intention and design, as an alternative to the linear model (Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation, 2012). CE promotes better management of resources throughout the entire 
life cycle of products and services, through sharing, maintenance, leasing, reuse, remanufacturing 
and recycling. The circular economy concept has recently gained momentum in both academia and 
practice. However, critics claim that it still means too many different things to different people 
(Kirchherr, Reike, Hekkert, 2017).  
Innovation is recognized as the main driver to aligning environmental and economic prosperity and 
is of paramount importance for the effective implementation of circular strategies (OECD, 2007). 
Business model innovation (BMI) refers to the exploration of new ways for creating, delivering and 
capturing value and is considered a critical source of competitive advantage in rapidly changing 
contexts (Amit & Zott, 2012). Firms are called to play a crucial role in the transition by rethinking 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1079 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
how they structure their business operations, slowing and closing resource loops and encouraging 
prolonged use of materials and products (Whalen, 2019). Some scholars have started the 
conversation on how open innovation might be used to promote the circular transition (Bogers, 
Chesbrough & Strand, 2020). Despite a growing interest in the field, most firms are still questioning 
how they can practically implement Business Model Innovation (BMI) for a CE (Urbinati, Chiaroni, 
& Chiesa, 2017).  
The purpose of this study is to unveil the key elements and success factors for applying innovative 
business models toward a circular economy. In order to shed light on the topic and produce a 
comprehensive state-of-the-art assessment, we selected the systematic literature review (SLR) 
methodology, suitable to identify, select, critically evaluate and synthesize extant literature in a 
rigorous, transparent and replicable manner (Vrontis & Christofi, 2019). Three inclusion criteria 
were chosen, taking inspiration from prior SLR studies (e.g. Khan et al., 2021): i) search boundaries; 
ii) search strings, and; iii) timeframe. The Title, Abstract and Keyword fields of the Scopus and Web 
of Science electronic databases were searched. To achieve our objective, we selected the following 
search formula: ‘business model innovation*’ AND ‘circular economy’ OR ‘circular*’. With the initial 
search, we obtained a total of 239 possibly relevant articles, published until January 2022. 
Afterwards, we applied the following exclusion criteria. First, we removed duplicates. Second, we 
focused on articles written in English (Follmer & Jones, 2018). Third, we took into consideration 
only articles published in peer-reviewed academic journals that had full texts. We continued the 
review through additional and more thorough rounds. Our rigorous screening process identified 
127 papers for inclusion in our final sample. In line with Corsi et al. (2020), the content analysis was 
done using NVivo, while the technical characteristics of the papers (e.g., publication outlet, type of 
paper, authors(s) details, citations, etc.) were examined manually.  
Our study confirms the increasing trend on the topic of business models for a circular economy, as 
82% of the articles examined were published in the years 2019-2022. 
Our findings reveal that, in the context of Business Model Innovation for a circular economy, 
scholars have highlighted three key elements: 1) a systemic approach; 2) the importance of putting 
the circular design of products and services at the centre; 3) the relevance of leveraging technology.  
Systems thinking can help organizations innovate by illustrating how different elements are 
interconnected and interdependent on one another, and how the drivers of direct change are 
determined and impacted by feedback loops, trade-offs, and non-linear relationships. 
Organizations that successfully apply systems thinking to reframe their product and service 
offerings foster the creative redesign of organizational practices which help reconceptualize waste 
as a resource and support the implementation of circular economy practices (Perey et al., 2018). 
The role of designers and a design thinking approach emerge as crucial to assist businesses in going 
circular, because of the ability to anticipate and plan ahead, which is needed to design a product 
that must evolve and stay relevant, desired and cost-effective over multiple lifecycles (Sumter, 
Bakker & Balkenende, 2018). A design approach is central to a circular economy, that aims to design 
out waste and inefficiencies from the very start (Gall et al., 2020). Successful business models 
should also leverage technological or digital aspects (Urbinati, Chiaroni & Toletti, 2019). Lack of 
technical and technological know-how can hinder SMEs from transforming their linear business 
model into a circular one and in some cases developing a technological solution becomes a 
necessity (Holtström, Bjellerup & Eriksson, 2019). The most recurrent technologies that emerged 
from the literature are the Internet of Things (Werning & Spinler, 2020) and blockchain (Lähdeaho 
& Hilmola, 2020).  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1080 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Interestingly, only a few studies focus on the roles of collaboration and co-creation as key in the 
redesign of business models for the transition, despite the growing attention of these concepts in 
the circular economy discourse (Brown, Bocken & Balkenende, 2019). Therefore, we argue that 
there is an opportunity for further research, particularly in the fields of management and 
organizational studies, to provide insights to practitioners on how to operationalize effective 
collaboration and co-creation for a circular economy. A longer-term and more collaborative 
perspective on business modelling is needed to understand potential system impacts and pursue 
more radical innovations; the contrary could potentially halt a successful transition toward a 
circular economy (Brown, Bocken & Balkenende, 2019). 
Our study provides contributions to the academic streams on Business Model Innovation and 
circular economy. The analysis also offers relevant implications for practitioners, as it suggests three 
key elements to consider when (re)designing a business model for circularity, namely 1) systems 
thinking; 2) design; 3) technology. Furthermore, our study presents policy implications due to the 
increasing relevance that policies have assumed to foster the circular economy.  
Despite providing fresh insights into both theory and practice, as with any other systematic 
literature review, we are aware of the limitations of our study. Our keyword search formula, for 
example, and the choice of certain electronic databases may have caused the exclusion of 
potentially relevant pieces of literature. We suggest future studies to extend the analysis on the 
key elements of business model innovation for a circular economy. Particularly, the following 
aspects might deserve attention: a) What are the tools to facilitate collaboration and co-creation 
for a circular economy?; b) What are the internal and external competencies required to foster 
collaborative innovation for circularity?; c) How can collaborative circular innovation and co-
creation be organised? 
Keywords  
Circular economy, innovation, collaboration, co-creation, business models 
References  
Amit, R. and Zott, C. (2012) Creating Value through Business Model Innovation. MIT Sloan Management 
Review, 53, 41-49. 
Bogers, M., Chesbrough, H., & Strand, R. (2020) Sustainable Open Innovation to Address a Grand Challenge: 
Lessons from Carlsberg and the Green Fiber Bottle. British Food Journal, 122(5), 1505-1517. 
Brown P., Bocken N., Balkenende R. (2019) Why Do Companies Pursue Collaborative Circular Oriented 
Innovation? Sustainability, 11(3), 635. 
Corsi, A., Pagani, R., Kovaleski, J., da Silva, V. (2019) Technology transfer for sustainable development: Social 
impacts depicted and some other answers to a few questions. Journal of Cleaner Production, 245. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2012). Circular Economy: Towards Economic and Business rationale for an 
accelerated transition. 
European Commission, Directorate-General for Communication, (2020). Circular economy action plan: for a 
cleaner and more competitive Europe, Publications Office. 
Ferraro, F., Etzion, D., Gehman, J. (2015) Tackling Grand Challenges Pragmatically: Robust 
Action Revisited. Organization Studies, 36(3), 363–390 
Follmer, K.B. and Jones, K.S. (2018) Mental illness in the workplace: An interdisciplinary review and 
organizational research agenda. Journal of Management, 44 (1)  

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1081 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Gall et. al (2020) Building a circular plastics economy with informal waste pickers: Recyclate quality, business 
model, and societal impacts. Resources Conservation and Recycling, 156. 
George, G., Howard-Grenville, J., Joshi A. & Tihanyi, L. (2016) Understanding and tackling societal grand 
challenges through management research. Academy of Management Journal, 59(6), 1880–1895. 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., & Ulgiati, S. (2016) A review on circular economy: The expected transition to a 
balanced interplay of environmental and economic systems. Journal of Cleaner Production, 114, 11-
32. 
Holtström, J., Bjellerup, C. and Eriksson, J. (2019) Business model development for sustainable apparel 
consumption: The case of Houdini Sportswear.  Journal of Strategy and Management, 12( 4), 481-
504. 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D., & Hekkert, M. (2017) Conceptualizing the circular economy: An analysis of 114 
definitions. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 127, 221-232. 
Khan et al. (2021) Green process innovation: Where we are and where we are going. Business Strategy and 
the Environment, 10. 
Lähdeaho, O., Hilmola, O. and Kajatkari, R. (2020) Maritime supply chain sustainability: South-East Finland 
case study, Journal of Shipping and Trade, 5(1), 1-15. 
OECD (2017) Innovation and growth. 
Perey, R., Benn S., Agarwal, R. & Edwards, M. (2018) The place of waste: Changing business value for the 
circular economy Business Strategy and Environment, 27, 631-642. 
Sumter, D., Bakker, C., & Balkenende, R. (2018) The Role of Product Design in Creating Circular Business 
Models: A Case Study on the Lease and Refurbishment of Baby Strollers. Sustainability, 10(7), 2415. 
Urbinati, A., Chiaroni, D., and Chiesa, V. (2017) Towards a New Taxonomy of Circular Economy Business 
Models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 168, 487-498. 
Urbinati, A., Chiaroni, D., Toletti, G. (2019) Managing the Introduction of Circular Products: Evidence from the 
Beverage Industry. Sustainability, 11, 3650. 
Vrontis, D. & Christofi, M. (2019) R&D internationalization and innovation: A systematic review, integrative 
framework and future research directions. Journal of Business Research, 128.  
Werning, J.P., Spinler, S. (2020) Transition to circular economy on firm level: barrier identification and 
prioritization along the value chain, Journal of Cleaner Production, 245. 
Whalen, K. A. (2019) Three circular business models that extend product value and their contribution to 
resource efficiency. Journal of Cleaner Production, 226, 1128-1137. 
Willett, W., Rockström, J., . . . Murray, C. (2019) Food in the Anthropocene: the EAT-Lancet Commission on 
healthy diets from sustainable food systems. The Lancet, 393, 447-492. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1082 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
From Circular Economy to Circular 
Society: Analyzing the triad of the 
social, political-economic and 
organizational system 
 
Christopher Kronenberg1*, Franziska Nemmer1  
1University of Applied Science BFI Vienna  
*christopher.kronenberg@fh-vie.ac.at  
Extended abstract 
0. Summary 
With regards to global mega trends, notably the effects of climate change, organizations 
across all industries have started to innovate their business models to implement more 
sustainable approaches of doing business. As an effect, more and more organizations are 
focusing on a circular economy rather than the predominant economic models based on a 
take-make-waste approach. But after all, the concept of circular economy can be seen as 
too short and one-sided, since organizations often focus purely on the economic business 
models without acknowledging the need for a re-design of social practices, cultural patterns 
and supporting institutions. In contrast, the concept of circular society represents a more 
holistic approach which includes all members and key players of society. In our paper we 
therefore argue that to fully understand this transformation process we must broaden the 
perspective by including social, institutional and political aspects into this discussion. 
Consequently, we aim to analyze a triad of relevant systems, divided into the social system, 
the political-economic system and the organizational system and their individual 
approaches, needs and attitudes towards a circular society. To fully understand the 
complexity of this transformation towards a circular society, we are going to identify relevant 
stakeholders within each system and conduct a qualitative survey, using focus groups to 
understand the different interests of each stakeholder group. As potential results, we expect 
to find a deeply interwoven structure between the three systems with respectively different 
power relations to influence the transformational process towards a circular society. 
 
1. Problem description 
In the face of current events and developments, such as extreme weather conditions 
caused by the climate change, increased resource depletion, loss of biodiversity and other 
life-threatening and man-made developments, the call for an alternative economic model is 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1083 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
getting louder from political, economic and societal stakeholders. Businesses across all 
industries have started to explore possibilities to minimize their resource input, to reuse 
products and components after the use of the product and / or to expand the life cycle of 
products. Consequently, businesses have started to innovate their business models to 
implement more sustainable and resource saving approaches of doing business (Ellen 
MacArthur, 2013). 
In this context, the circular economy represents not only an alternative to the current 
economic model, which is based on a take-make-waste approach, but also a tremendous 
business opportunity. Studies suggest that the business potential that lies in the circular 
economy is several trillion US$. From this point of view, the transition towards a circular 
economy model would not only make sense from a sustainable, but also and especially 
from an economic point of view (Salvador et al., 2021; Accenture Strategy, 2015). Also, the 
European Union counts on the effects of the circular economy to reach climate neutrality by 
2050 with its long-term strategy The European Green Deal (EU, 2021). Not least because 
of the high potential in practice, research on the topic of circular economy has been 
increasing more and more, especially in recent years (Ho et al., 2022; Moreau et al., 2017). 
The concept of circular economy challenges linear business models and instead calls for 
circular flows that reduce the negative impact on the environment by improving the 
utilization of resources through “reduce, reuse, and recycle strategies” (Moreau et al, 2017, 
p. 498).  But as the circular economy primarily focuses on value creation as well as 
innovation and consequently on archiving a sustainable competitive advantage over other 
players on the same market, one might argue that the underpinning logic of a circular 
economy is not that different from the current economic model. In addition, by focusing 
purely on business models and (business model) innovation without acknowledging the 
need for a re-design of social practices, cultural patterns and supporting institutions, this 
transformation process might be doomed to failure (Jaeger-Erben et al, 2021, Social Design 
Lab, 2021). 
2. Research focus 
Since the concept of circular economy is often seen as too short and one-sided (e.g., Friant 
et al, 2020, Jaeger-Erben et al, 2021, Moreau et al, 2017), a more holistic approach is 
necessary which includes all members and key players of society. In our paper we therefore 
argue that to fully understand this transformation process we must broaden the perspective 
by including social, institutional and political aspects into this discussion and not only 
focusing on business and economic aspects. What is more we argue that only a turn 
towards a circular society by including all relevant social and political stakeholders might 
lead to a true transformation that has a relevant impact also on people and planet and not 
only the economy. 
Therefore, and in line with the concept of a circular society (e.g., described by Jaeger-Erben 
et al, 2021) the current project will analyze a triad of the following relevant systems and their 
individual approaches, needs and attitudes towards circularity: 
• 
The organizational system 
• 
The political-economic system 
• 
The social system 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1084 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Firstly, the organizational system consists of economic organizations with their strategic 
management decisions including sustainable and circular aspects leading to business 
model innovation within enterprises and organizations. The activities and interests of this 
system regarding circular economy has already been widely researched, for example in the 
fields of sustainable business model innovation (e.g., Bocken et al, 2016; Geissdoerfer et 
al, 2020) or supply chain management (e.g., Geissdoerfer et al, 2018), but as stated above, 
to gain a more holistic picture, also the following two systems need to be considered. 
Secondly, the political-economic system includes political institutions, political decision-
making setting the legislative framework as well as economic institutions such as chamber 
of commerce and other special interest groups often influencing decision making processes. 
Involving this system is of enormous importance, as these institutions play a crucial role in 
the implementation of laws and rules (Moreau et al. 2017) and must also consider the overall 
welfare of society and the planet in addition to the economic perspective.  
Finally, the social systems, including the society with their defining norms and values. 
These norms and values exist on a societal level but consequently affect the individual 
behavior and are including the stance on a sustainable and circular behavior. Although 
society plays a crucial role in the transformation towards a circular society, little is yet known 
about the share of this system in the change process (Ho et al, 2022; Moreau et al, 2017). 
While there are already some insights on the role of the civil society (e.g., Ho et al, 2022), 
which represents "an ecosystem of organized and organic social and cultural relations 
existing in the space between the state, business, and family" (VanDyck, 2017, p.1), there 
is still a need for a more comprehensive approach to take a closer look at the individual 
actors in this system and how they interact. 
Thus, we argue that the transformation process towards a circular society will mainly be 
shaped and influenced by these three systems and their individual interests on this 
transformation. Especially when more actors with different interests come together, 
complexity increases (Ho et al, 2022) and may even lead to contradictory actions. Exploring 
the dynamic interplay of these three systems is therefore of crucial importance and will 
provide further insights into the transformation towards a circular society. 
3. Method 
After undertaking a literature review the understand the generic understanding of the 
circular society concept, we will design a focus group approach. As the concept of the 
circular society is relatively new, and currently little is known about the interrelatedness 
between the above identified systems shaping a circular society as well as the interests and 
motives of each group. Because of this explorative nature, we will adopt a qualitative 
approach to gain meaningful insights into first the interconnection between these systems 
and second insights – interests, motivations to participate in this transition, etc. - into each 
system. Therefore, we will use a focus group design with relevant stakeholders of each 
system. The aim of the focus group is to gain a broader understanding of the interrelated 
systems, but also of the interests of each system, which might be supporting or conflicting 
interests. {Note from the authors: the focus group will be carried out beginning of May, the 
results will therefore be presented at the NBM Conference in June this year}. 
Using focus groups in social sciences has become widely accepted within the academic 
community and there is practical advice on how to design and carry out a focus group as 
well as on how to evaluate the findings. One of the advantages of a focus group is that it 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1085 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
allows the researchers to observe a large amount of interaction on a specific topic 
(Smithson, 2008). Furthermore, focus groups give participants the opportunity to engage in 
a discussion and consequently researchers can use this broad range of information to 
deliver meaningful insights (Hennink, 2014). 
4. Results and conclusion 
As potential results of this research approach, we expect to find a deeply interwoven 
structure between the three systems whereby the goal is to enlighten the power and/or 
influence of each system within this transformation process. We expect to find a power 
imbalance towards the social system as the political-economic system and the 
organizational system are better connected and organized and therefore can influence the 
transformation process towards their own advantage.  
 
This abstract will contribute to the following theme: Design Thinking, Actor Engagement, 
and Legitimation in the Context of Circular Business Model Innovation 
Keywords  
Circular society, circular economy, sustainable business models, system level,  
References  
Accenture 
Stratey 
(2015) 
Waste 
to 
Wealth. 
Executive 
Summary. 
Available 
from: 
https://thecirculars.org/content/resources/Accenture-Waste-Wealth-Exec-Sum-FINAL.pdf 
[Accessed: 24th January 2022]. 
Bocken, N. M., de Pauw, I., Bakker, C., van der Grinten, B. (2016) Product design and business model strategies 
for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering, 33(5), 308–320. Available 
from: https://doi.org/10.1080/21681015.2016.1172124 [Accessed: 5th April 2022]. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2013) Towards the Circular Economy. Ellen MacArthur Foundation. 
European Union (2021) European Green Deal. Available from: https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-
2019-2024/european-green-deal_de [Accessed: 15th January 2022]. 
Friant, M. C., Vermeulen, W. J. V., Salomone, R. (2020) A typology of circular economy discourses: Navigating 
the diverse visions of a contested paradigm. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 161, 104917. 
Available from: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921344920302354 [Accessed: 
24th January 2022]. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Morioka, S. N., de Carvalho, M. M., Evans, S. (2018) Business models and supply chains for 
the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner Production, 190, 712–721. Available from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.04.159 [Accessed: 5th April 2022]. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Pieroni, M. P. P., Pigosso, D. C. A., Soufani, K. (2020) Circular business models: A review. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
277, 
123741. 
Available 
from: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.123741 [Accessed: 5th April 2022]. 
Hennink, M. M. (2014). Focus group discussions (understanding qualitative research). New York, USA: Oxford 
University Press. 
Ho, C.-H., Böhm, S. Monciardini, D. (2022) The collaborative and contested interplay between business and 
civil society in circular economy transitions. Business Strategy and the Environment, [online] 
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.3001   [Accessed: 24th April 2022]. 
 
Jaeger-Erben, M., Jensen, C., Hofmann, F., Zwiers, J. (2021) There is no sustainable circular economy without 
a circular society. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 168, 105476. Available from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0921344921000835?via%3Dihub  
[Accessed: 24th January 2022]. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1086 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Moreau, V., Sahakian, M., van Griethuysen, P., Vuille, F. (2017) Coming Full Circle: Why Social and Institutional 
Dimensions Matter for the Circular Economy. Journal of Industrial Ecology, 21 (3), 497-506. Available 
from: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jiec.12598 [Accessed: 24th January 2022]. 
Salvador, R., Puglieri, F. N., Halog, A., de Andrade, F. G., Piekarski, C. M. & De Francisco, A. C. (2021) Key 
aspects for designing business models for a circular bioeconomy. Journal of Cleaner Production, 278 
(1), 1-14. 
Smithson, J. (2008) Focus Groups. In: Alasuutari, P., Bickman, L., Brannen, J. (eds.) The SAGE Handbook of 
Social Research Methods. SAGE, London, 357-369. 
Social Design Lab (2021) Paths towards a Circular Society. Social Design Lab Hans Sauer Stiftung, München. 
VanDyck, C. K. (2017) Concept and Definition of Civil Society Sustainability. Centre for Strategic & International 
Studies. 
Available 
from: 
http://csis-website-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-
public/publication/170630_VanDyck_CivilSocietySustainability_Web.pdf [Accessed: 5th April 2022].  
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1087 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Leveraging Business Model 
Innovation for Sustainability 
Tentative Principles to Support True Co-Creation Between 
Students and SMEs 
Michael von Kutzschenbach1,*, Ananda Wyss1, Maya Hoveskog2, 
Joakim Tell2 
1Institute of Management, School of Business, University of Applied 
Sciences and Arts Northwestern Switzerland; 2Centre for Innovation, 
Entrepreneurship and Learning research (CIEL), School of Business, 
Innovation and Sustainability, Halmstad University 
*michael.vonkutzschenbach@fhnw.ch 
Extended abstract 
Re-thinking in both educational and business practices bears potential as major leverages for a 
transition towards sustainability. Bringing these together to facilitate learning and joint co-creation 
towards business model innovation for sustainability (BMIfS) can be a powerful force for action. 
This requires organizations to embrace a fundamental shift from the “profit-normative” logic 
(Upward & Jones, 2016) to the logic of sustainability-as-flourishing or “positive-impact companies” 
(Pavez et al., 2021).  This new logic has been described as "[the] possibility that human and other 
life will flourish on the earth forever” (Ehrenfeld, 2000, p. 36). To achieve this end, organizations 
must conceptualize and realize new business logics. While startups are well-positioned to create 
new business logics because they are less burdened by the rigid mindsets and organizational inertia, 
established organizations such as SMEs face much bigger challenges (Chesbrough, 2010). Change is 
often met with strong resistance as managers prefer to do what they have always done and been 
incentivized for (Chesbrough, 2010; Kerr, 1995; Prahalad & Bettis, 1995). 
Several authors have iterated the importance of co-creation and collaboration with multiple 
stakeholders for BMIfS (e.g., Breuer et al., 2018; Brown et al., 2021). Classroom settings provide the 
ideal setting to collaboratively engage multiple stakeholders (students, teachers, researchers, 
practitioners, and others) in generating new knowledge and experimenting with ways to improve 
contemporary “real world” situations (Beynaghi et al., 2016; Holgaard et al., 2016; Holm et al., 2015; 
Kurucz et al., 2014). However, most higher education remains fundamentally disciplinary and rest 
in silos, giving students little opportunity to deal with “messy” real-world challenges (Dyllick, 2015). 
Sustainability challenges are usually wicked and hard to resolve, demanding creative, systemic, and 
divergent approaches such as problem-based learning (Muff, 2013). There are, however, many 
organizational and practical challenges to implementing such activities, such as fixed mindsets and 
timeframes, as add-ons and with no or limited budgets. This limits the opportunities for students 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1088 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
to learn and practice more systems thinking and critical thinking, which is applied to real-life 
situations (Dyllick, 2015; Guerra, 2017; Muff, 2013; O’Brien & Sarkis, 2014). Furthermore, proactive 
commitment from SMEs to truly co-create is still weak, inhibiting innovative experiential learning 
initiatives for BMIfS together with students. 
BMIfS have a vital role in achieving a sustainable transition. However, the role of the firms, e.g., 
their business models entangled in complex ecosystems and how to support  sustainability, have 
achieved little attention (Bidmon & Knab, 2018). In addition, the educational facet in supporting 
businesses in such transitions appears insufficiently addressed. In particular, the practical 
implementation of learning activities that aim to strengthen students’ and businesses’ capabilities 
for BMIfS (Wyss, Meyer & von Kutzschenbach, 2021). This paper aims to contribute to both by 
addressing the knowing-doing gap and challenges in true co-creation for BMIfS between students 
and SMEs and establishing tentative principles to approach it. These principles can support 
educators in enabling and developing co-creative educational approaches for BMIfS with students 
and SMEs. 
Illustrative Experiences from Two BMIfS Initiatives with Students and SMEs 
This research includes observations from two illustrative initiatives and their responses to support 
the design of educational co-creative BMIfS with students and SMEs. The first initiative, “Think 
Tank- Business Model Innovation (TT-BMI)”, illustrates an action-oriented research project that was 
launched in 2021 at the University of Applied Sciences and Arts Northwestern Switzerland, FHNW 
(www.TT-BMI.ch). It aims to gain a deeper understanding of what an appropriate educational 
initiative should look like to enable collaborative, inter- and transdisciplinary BMIfS with students 
and SMEs in the Upper Rhine Region. The initiative is in the process of launching several pilot 
formats ranging from semester-long electives to summer schools and extracurricular, multiple-day 
workshops. The second initiative, “Uncovering Business Opportunities Opened by a Climate-Neutral 
Car”, illustrates a shorter co-creation challenge for students with a Swedish SME called Polestar. 
The initiative was integrated as part of the already existing curriculum at University Halmstad with 
the scope of co-creating a complete business model following different time horizons. 
Reflection and Tentative Principles for Designing Co-creative BMIfS Initiatives with Students and 
SMEs 
From the illustrative initiatives, a number of underlying causes for the challenges of true co-creative 
BMIfS with students and SMEs could be identified. Based on these observations and our experience, 
we suggest the 7C tentative principles as a means to bridge the knowing-doing gap. These include 
Confirmation, Confidence, Creativity, Credibility, Communication, Capability to co-create, and 
Competence to address the Systems-Citizenship Gap. For successful BMIfS co-creation initiatives 
with students and SMEs, these principles need to be mutual, creating value for both students and 
SMEs as well as the educational institutions. The co-creation initiatives must be flexible, systemic 
design-based formats organized around a concrete business model innovation relevant challenge 
to serve as a boundary object. The tentative principles are described as follows: 
1. Confirmation: Enable opportunities for identity confirmation. 
2. Confidence: Create arenas and activities to boost confidence in oneself and one’s 
capabilities. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1089 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
3. Creativity: Creatively use resources and ongoing activities to encourage problem-solving 
and innovation. 
4. Credibility: Invest time in the relationship between the different parties to create credibility 
(trust and access). 
5. Communication: Invest time to communicate with different parties to align objectives, 
worldviews, and expectations. 
6. Capability to co-create: Invest time and provide practice opportunities to develop skills and 
capabilities to have productive conversations. 
7. Competence to address the Systems-Citizenship Gap: Enable deeper understanding of 
embeddedness of business activities in socio-ecological systems and resulting 
interdependencies for BMIfS. 
Conclusion 
Educating to enable students and SMEs to innovate business models for sustainability and be 
respons(able) future leaders takes us into unfamiliar territory. It is unfamiliar to everyone. 
Education for BMIfS is a wicked problem, too. There is no predefined curriculum, any more than 
there is agreement on the learning process that will be needed. Moreover, it is not a job for 
educators alone. The inherent resistance to change in social systems (like SMEs or universities) will 
continue to thwart the transition to sustainability until communities of people from business and 
educational institutions start working together to create an innovative learning environment for 
true co-creation for BMIfS with students and SMEs. 
Our insights strengthen Giesenbauer and Müller-Christ’s (2020) idea of a University 4.0, in which 
higher education institutions focus on creating collaborations, co-creativity, and inter-
organizational networks with stakeholders of all kinds (teachers, researchers, students, industry, 
and organizations), in the generation of both knowledge and solutions to reduce the complexity as 
perceived by SMEs and take on the role as change agents for sustainable development. 
Building on the tentative principles discussed above, it might be helpful to initiate a systemic design 
challenge to address the topic of “How might a true co-creative BMIfS initiative with students and 
SMEs for a flourishing world look like?”. As this is not a technical problem and we might only be 
able to dissolve it (s. Ackoff, 1981), we are also being challenged to experiment with different kinds 
of research in education for BMIfS, like design-based research. Additionally, longitudinal research 
is needed to follow up on how SMEs handle the BMIfS ideas and their impact, as Snihur and Bocken 
(2022) also suggested. 
Keywords 
Business Model Innovation for Sustainability, Co-Creation, Higher Education, Organizational 
Learning, Experiential Learning 
References 
Ackoff, R.S. (1981). The Art and Science of Mess Management. INTERFACES, 11(1), p. 20-26. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1090 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Beynaghi, A., Trencher, G., Moztarzadeh, F., Mozafari, M., Maknoon, R., & Leal Filho, W. (2016). Future 
sustainability scenarios for universities: moving beyond the United Nations decade of education for 
sustainable development. Journal of Cleaner Production, 112, p. 3464-3478. 
Bidmon, C. M., & Knab, S. F. (2018). The three roles of business models in societal transitions: New linkages 
between business model and transition research. Journal of Cleaner Production, 178, p. 903-916. 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Tiemann, I. (2018). Sustainability-oriented business model 
development: Principles, criteria and tools. International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing, 10(2), 
p. 256-286. https://doi.org/10.1504/IJEV.2018.092715. 
Brown, P., Baldassarre, B., Konietzko, J., Bocken, N., & Balkenende, R. (2021) A tool for collaborative circular 
proposition 
design. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
297, 
126354p. 
1-15. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.126354. 
Chesbrough, H. (2010). Business model innovation: Opportunities and barriers. Long Range Planning, 43(2-
3), p. 354–363. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.010. 
Dyllick, T. (2015). Responsible management education for a sustainable world: The challenges for business 
schools. Journal of Management Development, 34(1), p. 16-33. http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JMD-02-
2013-0022. 
Ehrenfeld, J.R., 2000. Colorless green ideas sleep furiously: is the emergence of ‘sustainable’ practices 
meaningful? Reflections, 1(4), p. 34–47. 
Giesenbauer, B., & Müller-Christ, G. (2020). University 4.0: Promoting the transformation of higher education 
institutions toward sustainable development. Sustainability, 12(8), 3371. 
Guerra, A. (2017). Integration of sustainability in engineering education. International Journal of Sustainability 
in Higher Education, 18(3), p. 436-454. 
Holgaard, J.E., Hadgraft, R., Kolmos, A., & Guerra, A. (2016). Strategies for education for sustainable 
Development: Danish and Australian perspectives. Journal of Cleaner Production, 112, p. 3479-3491. 
Holm, T., Sammalisto, K., Grindsted, T.S., & Vuorisalo, T. (2015). Process framework for identifying 
sustainability aspects in university curricula and integrating education for sustainable development. 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 106, p. 164-174. 
Kerr, S. (1995). On the Folly of Rewarding A, while Hoping for B. The Academy of Management Executive, 9(1), 
p. 7-14. 
Kurucz, E.C., Colbert, B.A., & Marcus, J. (2014). Sustainability as a provocation to rethink management 
education: building a progressive educative practice. Management and Learning, 45(4), p. 437-457. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/1350507613486421. 
Muff, K. (2013). Developing globally responsible leaders in business schools: A vision and transformational 
practice for the journey ahead. Journal of Management Development, 32(5), p. 487-507. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/02621711311328273. 
O'Brien, W., & Sarkis, J. (2014). The potential of community-based sustainability projects for deep learning 
initiatives. 
Journal 
of 
cleaner 
production, 
62, 
p. 
48-61. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.07.001. 
Pavez, I., Kendall, L.D., & Laszlo, C. (2021). Positive-impact companies: Toward a new paradigm of value 
creation. 
Organizational 
Dynamics, 
Volume 
50(4), 
p. 
1-11. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.orgdyn.2020.100806. 
Prahalad, C.K. & Bettis, R. (1995). The dominant logic: retrospective and extension. Strategic Management 
Journal, 16(1), p.5–14. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2486943. 
Snihur, Y., & Bocken, N. (2022).  A call for action:  The impact of business model innovation on business 
ecosystems, society, and planet. Long Range Planning. https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2022.102182. 
Upward, A., & Jones, P.H. (2016). An ontology for strongly sustainable business models: defining an enterprise 
framework compatible with natural and social science. Organization and Environment, 1, p. 97-123. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/1086026615592933. 
Wyss, A., Meyer, R., & von Kutzschenbach, M. (2021). Sustainable Business Model Innovation for Society 5.0: 
Towards a Collaborative Inter- & Transdisciplinary Approach with Students and Organizations. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1091 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Proceedings of the First International Conference on Society 5.0. 2, p. 246-261. DOI: 
10.5281/zenodo.5203145. 
 
 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1092 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Dynamic Capabilities for Enhanced 
Sustainability Performance: A 
Multiple-Case Study in the 
Construction Industry 
 
Eric Maximilian Fath-Kolmes1,*, Thomas B. Long1 
1 University of Groningen 
* e.m.fath-kolmes@rug.nl 
Abstract 
Businesses in the construction industry need to improve their sustainability performance, 
considering the sector’s large environmental and social footprint. A number of construction 
organizations have now taken steps to embed sustainability in their strategy and way they do 
business. Far from sustainability being a cost, these organizations realized new opportunities and 
gained sources of competitive advantage. Research is increasingly recognizing dynamic capabilities 
for sustainability as an important aspect in helping organizations with these rapidly changing 
regulations and customer requirements for sustainability. They can help organizations sense these 
new sustainability opportunities, adapt their business model and strategy to seize them, and 
transform their organization to fit with this new way of doing business. Focused on the construction 
industry, this research does a multiple case study of organizations at an enhanced level of 
sustainability performance, looking to better understand how they developed their dynamic 
capabilities for sustainability to achieve their current level. 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1093 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Conference Board 
 
 
Maya Hoveskog  
School of Business, Innovation and Sustainability, Halmstad University 
 
Florian Lüdeke-Freund  
Chair for Corporate Sustainability, ESCP Business School Berlin 
 
Niels Faber 
Centre of Sustainable Entrepreneurship, University of Groningen 
 
Romana Rauter 
Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Research, University of Graz 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1094 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
Conference Team 
 
 
Laura Michelini 
Laura Michelini PhD, is an Associate Professor of Management at the Department of Law, Economics, 
Politics and Modern Languages at LUMSA University of Rome, where she teaches Management and 
Business Model Innovation.  She worked for several years in UNICEF, where she was in charge of managing 
profit/no-profit global partnership.  
Laura main research interests involve social innovation, social business models, sharing economy and 
corporate social responsibility. On these topics she has authored and co-authored over 50 publications 
some of which have been published in Ecological Economics, Journal of Cleaner Production, British Food 
Journal, Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly. 
She is a member of the Eramus+ project “European Latin American Network in support of Social 
Entrepreneurs” (ELANET) and WG3 leader in the COST Action "From Sharing to Caring: Examining Socio-
Technical Aspects of the Collaborative Economy". She is also a member of the board of the Italian Society 
of Management (SIMA).  
 
 
Anna Minà 
Anna Minà is associate professor of management at University of Rome LUMSA, Palermo Campus. She 
has been assistant professor of management at University of Enna, and postdoctoral research fellow in 
strategic management at Sapienza University of Rome, and University of Catania. She has been Visiting 
Scholar at NYU’s Stern School of Management and ISB-Indian School of Business. She gained her PhD in 
Business Economics and Management at University of Catania. 
Her research revolves around the conceptualization of coopetition strategy and the emergence of 
coopetition in inter-firm network and channel relations. Her research interests also focus on the 
antecedents and consequences of corporate social irresponsibility.  
She has received the Best Paper on The History of Corporate Social Responsibility from the Academy of 
Management, in Philadelphia and the Best Paper Award Runner-up on “Coopetition and Value Networks” 
from the European Institute for Advanced Studies in Management. 
Her work has been published in international outlets, including Academy of Management Perspectives, 
Long Range Planning, Journal of Business and Industrial Marketing, and Management and Organization 
Review.  
She is member of the Erasmus+ Project European Latin American Network in support of Social 
Entrepreneurs (ELANET) 

NBM @ ROME 2022 
 
Full Conference Proceedings 
1095 
LUMSA University, 23-24 June 2022 
About LUMSA University 
 
 
LUMSA University was founded in Rome in 1939 and it is characterized by its openness to the idea of 
universal human citizenship. LUMSA is a highly ranked Italian University, with over 7,000 students (10% 
international) and 500 staff. It offers B.A. and M.A degree programs in law, business administration, 
economics, education and communication, psychology. LUMSA awards PhD degrees in social policy, law, 
psychology, education and economics. 
All training programs, including PhD, are open to international students. LUMSA has signed more than 
160 bilateral agreements worldwide (Europe, the Americas, Asia and Africa). In 2017, LUMSA has 13 
currently running projects funded by the EU, including H2020, COST, and Jean Monnet. It has been 
awarded by the European Commission with two Excellence Labels: ECTS and DS (Diploma Supplement) 
Label. LUMSA is the owner of its premises and research facilities. LUMSA promotes and supports basic 
and interdisciplinary research through the University Centre for Research and Internationalization and the 
Ethics Committee for Scientific Research whose remit is to evaluate and advice on research proposals 
submitted by scholars working at LUMSA. LUMSA is a member of the Agency for the Promotion of 
European Research, part of the EURAXESS network- Researchers in Motion - and Eduroam (Education 
Roaming). LUMSA is member of the Joint Management Committee for the international large scale 
assessment study on Civic and Citizenship Education promoted by IEA (International Association for the 
Evaluation of Educational Achievement) ICCS 2022. 

