BERLIN 
LONDON 
MADRID 
PARIS 
TURIN 
WARSAW
4th International Conference on New Business Models
New Business Models for  
Sustainable Entrepreneurship, Innovation, and Transformation
Full Conference Proceedings
1-3 July 2019 | ESCP Europe Berlin | Germany
www.nbmconference.eu

 
 
Colophon 
 
Edited by Florian Lüdeke-Freund and Tobias Froese, with support from Claire 
Eckmann and Harris Azhar 
Chair for Corporate Sustainability, ESCP Europe Business School, Berlin 
 
Edited in June 2019 
 
 
We thank the numerous authors and reviewers without whom these proceedings 
would not have been possible! 
 
Disclaimer  
 
 
The editors have taken the utmost care to ensure the reliability and completeness 
of all the published information. However, inaccuracies cannot be precluded. 
While the greatest possible care was taken during the preparation of these 
proceedings, there is always the possibility that certain information of sources 
referred to become(s) outdated or inaccurate over the course of time. Certain 
references in these proceedings lead to information sources that are maintained 
by third parties and over which we have no control. The editors and authors 
therefore do not bear responsibility for the accuracy or any other aspect of the 
information from these sources. In no way does the mention of these information 
sources represent a recommendation by the editors or the authors or an implicit 
or explicit approval of the information. The editors and authors are not 
responsible for the consequences of activities undertaken on the basis of these 
proceedings. No part of these proceedings may be reproduced by means of print, 
photocopies, automated databases or in any other way, without the prior written 
permission of the corresponding authors. The texts in this publication do not aim 
to the discriminatory in any way on the basis of race, religion or sex. Wherever it 
says ‘he’ in the text, ‘she’ may naturally be read as well and vice versa. 
 
Reference 
 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Froese, T. (2019): Proceedings of the 4th International 
Conference on New Business Models: New Business Models for Sustainable 
Entrepreneurship, Innovation, and Transformation, Berlin, Germany, 1-3 July 
2019. Berlin: ESCP Europe.  
 
ISBN  978-3-96705-001-1 
 
 

 
 
Partners 
 
 
 
 
 
www.newbusinessmodels.info 
www.sustainablebusinessmodel.org 
www.ssbmg.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.sustbusy.eu 
www.sayinstitute.eu 
www.ssbmg.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.vubsocialentrepreneurship.co
m 
www.klimapatenschaft.de 
www.uxberlin.com 
 
 
Media Partners 
 
 
 
www.oekom.de 
www.gaia-online.net 
 
 
 

 
 
Table of Contents 
 
 
Partners ........................................................................................................... 2 
Words of Welcome ........................................................................................... 4 
Instead of a Prologue ....................................................................................... 5 
Conference Programme .................................................................................... 9 
Introductory Note & Fishbowl Discussion ........................................................ 12 
Keynotes ........................................................................................................ 13 
ABC Panel – Academic / Business / Consulting ................................................ 16 
Journal Panel ................................................................................................. 19 
Conference Tracks .......................................................................................... 21 
Track I: Business Models For A Circular Economy ............................................ 23 
Track II: New Business Models, Sustainable Development & Corporate Strategic 
Management ............................................................................................... 168 
Track III: Social Entrepreneurship as Transformative Force towards 
Sustainability ............................................................................................... 336 
Track IV: Circular Communication in a Circular Economy, How Social Media 
Communication Shapes Sustainable Business Models ................................... 446 
Track V: New Business Models for Sustainable Entrepreneurship .................. 476 
Track VI: Open Innovation Enabled by Emerging Technologies: What Are the 
Implications for New Business Models? ........................................................ 551 
Track VII: New Business Models for Sustainability Transition ........................ 625 
Track VIII: Insights on New Business Models from Young Academics ............. 761 
Track IX: Sustainable Business Models for A Sharing Economy ...................... 903 
Track X: Practitioner Sessions ....................................................................... 924 
Instead of an Epilogue .................................................................................. 927 
Conference Team ......................................................................................... 928 
About ESCP Europe Berlin ............................................................................. 929 
 
 
 

 
 
Words of Welcome 
 
 
Dear Friends and Fellows, 
 
Dear Business Model Enthusiasts, 
It is a great honour to welcome you to a (most likely) sunny Berlin and the 4th 
International Conference on New Business Models, which is dedicated to “New 
Business 
Models 
for 
Sustainable 
Entrepreneurship, 
Innovation, 
and 
Transformation”! 
Our aim is to motivate vivid discussions on new business models with the potential 
to contribute to a sustainable development of the natural environment and 
mankind. Corresponding business models and business activities require 
entrepreneurs and innovations that foster transitions to future-fit societies, 
building on values such as responsibility and justice. And this endeavour, in turn, 
requires much more progress in inter-, multi-, and transdisciplinary research.  
Therefore, we aim at creating new connections between entrepreneurship, 
innovation, and transition studies to find new ways to better understand and 
tackle the obvious ecological and socio-economic crises that current and following 
generations are facing. Even though stories about the world’s doom and gloom 
are omnipresent, we should never lose our faith - our faith in mankind and our 
faith in ourselves as researchers, business women, consumers, parents, and 
friends.  
Now, more than ever, it is important to connect, communicate, argue, share and 
combine our individual and collective knowledge and skills. Therefore, our hope is 
that NBM@Berlin 2019 will be much more than 100 academic presentations from 
35 countries – thanks a lot for submitting and reviewing so many papers!  
We hope that it will be a real meeting that motivates real conversations between 
friends and fellows and that furthers the development of a worldwide community 
of experts and enthusiasts dealing with the various intersections of business and 
sustainability studies. 
Berlin, 10th June 2019 
Prof. Dr. Florian Lüdeke-Freund 
NBM@Berlin 2019 Conference Chair 
 
 

 
 
Instead of a Prologue 
 
 
FIVE VIEWS INTO THE FUTURE OF SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL RESEARCH 
 
Q&A with Nancy Bocken1, Henning Breuer2, Lorenzo Massa3, Christian Nielsen4 
and Stefan Schaltegger5 
1 Professor in Sustainable Business Management and Practice at Lund University, IIIEE in Sweden 
2 Founder of UXBerlin – Innovation Consulting (www.uxberlin.com), and Professor for Business and 
Media Psychology at the University of Applied Sciences for Media, Communication and Business in 
Berlin, Germany 
3 Adjunct Professor at University of Bologna, Department of Management, Italy 
4 Professor at Aalborg University, Denmark, Co-Founding-Editor of the Journal of Business Models, 
Co-Organiser of the Business Model Conference 
5 Professor for Sustainability Management, Head of the Centre for Sustainability Management 
(CSM) and the MBA Sustainability Management at Leuphana University Lüneburg, Germany 
 
 
QUESTION 1:  
WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE MOST IMPORTANT PROGRESS THAT HAS BEEN 
MADE AT THE INTERSECTION OF BUSINESS MODEL AND SUSTAINABILITY 
RESEARCH IN THE PAST DECADE? 
 
Nancy Bocken 
“First of all, we made advancements by starting to conceptualize what a “business 
model for sustainability” is as opposed to a more traditional profit-oriented model. 
Second, by focusing on “business model for sustainability” or “sustainable 
business models”, we were able to move beyond the more limited focus on 
Product Service Systems or PSS and separate research agendas on social and green 
business models, towards a broader unified agenda for sustainable business 
models. 
Third, the latest research focuses more on designing and experimenting with 
sustainable business models, and tools and methods, which allows us to bring back 
notions from earlier research on PSS, which suggested the need to consciously 
‘design’ better business models to achieve the highest environmental (and social) 
impacts, making the circle round again. 
Finally, talking about circles, new topics such as circular economy and sharing 
economy should keep sustainability researchers on their toes to identify and help 
pursue the business models with the greatest environmental and societal gains.” 
 
 
 

 
 
Henning Breuer 
“The intersection as such has received much more attention, and develops from a 
niche into a mainstream topic even for innovation management scholars and 
practitioners. Numerous case studies and analytical works allowed us to 
demonstrate different business cases for sustainability, to derive reusable design 
patterns to create sustainable business, and to critically review the economic, 
social and environmental impact of business models. They also helped us to better 
understand, how shared values and normative management play a pivotal role in 
the design and development of sustainable business models.” 
 
Lorenzo Massa 
“I am biased here, clearly. In my view it has to do with two related things.  
On the one hand, the fact that the sustainability lens applied to business models 
has resulted, among other things, in challenging the traditional view on business 
models, for example in relationship to one the central parts of business model 
analysis, which is understanding value creation (also delivery and capture). This 
has resulted, among other things, in tools and other artefacts that come as a very 
interesting complement to traditional ones, and stimulate us to embrace the 
ability to think contingently and ask "what type of perspective on the business 
model is useful under what circumstances?" I am thinking here about tools such 
as the value mapping of Nancy Bocken, or the Triple Layered Business Model by 
Joice - I think there is tremendous value in having a plurality of perspectives - even 
if the meaning and significance of what I refer to as "mental ambidexterity in 
(strategic) thinking” may not be sufficiently discussed and perhaps even 
recognized.  
On the other hand, the business model lens has somehow started to contaminate 
the sustainability discussion with a design twist - and moved it away from the 
"more normal" sustainability discussion ingrained in the normative (as in many 
articles that appeared in Journal of Business Ethics) and in organisation theory - as 
with articles that appeared in AMR or AMJ - authored by leading figures such as 
Tima Bansal, Rutt Aguilera, Aragon-Correa, Shangai Sharma, etc. The business 
model holds the potential to help sustainability research embrace more 
convincingly a third paradigm in research (beyond the normative and org theory 
traditions), which is that one of design sciences, or the mode 2 type of knowledge 
production, to use the words of Van Aken.” 
 
Christian Nielsen 
“The notion of business models, and along with it a focus on the creation of value, 
capture of value and sharing of value, has been a major influence in freeing 
sustainability from the ties of merely being a strategy project leading to a 
sustainability report. The notion of value propositions has been an important 
factor in refocusing management attention from outputs (profits) to outcomes 
(impact). Further, while the stakeholder perspective has had a close connection to 
sustainable thinking, business model research has contributed by highlighting the 

 
 
importance of thinking in terms of strategic partnerships in value creation and 
platform-based business models.” 
 
Stefan Schaltegger 
“Cross-fertilization happens in both directions: First, business models have been 
introduced and established as a new lens and fundamental approach to better 
integrate sustainability considerations in corporate strategy, the organization and 
its up- and downstream activities. Second, corporate sustainability research has 
inspired business model research to consider a broader range of stakeholders as 
well as more comprehensive management approaches and perspectives.” 
 
QUESTION 2:  
WHAT KIND OF RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES DO YOU SEE FOR THE NEXT DECADE, 
IN TERMS OF THE PHENOMENA WE STUDY, THE THEORIES AND METHODS WE 
APPLY? 
 
Nancy Bocken 
“There are numerous possible directions, some with a more theoretical 
orientation, and others more focused on stimulating the urgent need for the 
uptake of sustainable business models in practice, and yet others clearly blending 
theoretical and practical contributions. Among those, I highlight a few gaps and 
opportunities: 
▪ The need for cumulative theoretical development on sustainable business 
models. This will help embed the sustainable business model discourse 
into mainstream management journals. 
▪ Understand the role of business (models) in sustainability transitions. 
▪ Understanding and guiding processes for sustainable business model 
innovation, through approaches such as ethnography and more action-
oriented approaches in order to close the idea-action gap for sustainability. 
▪ Understanding the real impact of sustainable business models and how 
they can lead to solutions for sustainable production as well as more 
thorny topics such as sustainable consumption (through concepts such as 
‘degrowth’ or ‘sufficiency’ as part of business models).” 
 
Henning Breuer 
“Empirical research and theories on impact assessment (including measuring 
current impact and estimating future impact of emerging business models) are 
crucial to make our work even more relevant. In order to support impact and 
innovation management, we also need more easily accessible tools and methods. 
We have a bunch of ideation and mapping tools, but we need advanced methods 
across the whole innovation to foster awareness, to generate and convey our 
insights and to develop and scale sustainable business models. In a European 
project we are already working on gamified methods to facilitate sustainability-
oriented innovation and entrepreneurship.” 
Lorenzo Massa 

 
 
“I think the answer to this question is already implicitly contained in the answer 
above. Overall this will have to do with opportunities to bring research in 
sustainability closer to the idea of design science research - things such as action 
research will also fit this picture. A main question remains onto whether dominant 
views into what constitutes production of scientific knowledge - for example the 
possibility of an over-obsession with contribution to theory in today’s dominant 
paradigmatic view - will create a natural antibody to neutralise efforts of this type. 
I think contributions that have appeared in, for example, the Journal of Cleaner 
Production reveal some openness to the possibility that my concern is misplaced 
and that a move towards design science paradigms is already happening. My 
perspective is that this shift is a good thing. Not everybody would agree.” 
 
Christian Nielsen 
“I am hoping to see more critical studies to help us understand under which 
circumstances sustainability research and business models can interact, but also 
to identify areas where they clash; for example when businesses are bound by 
return-on-equity goals or other corporate “performative" objectives that keep 
them afloat. Along the same lines, qualitative studies can help us understanding 
barriers to, and mechanisms in, creating and developing sustainable business 
models, as well as the supporting decisions behind them. It is my hope that future 
research will lift the notion of business models from circular and shared-economy 
type business model configurations into providing solutions to the production of 
waste, but also to informing the greater problem of our throw-away culture and 
thus also to strengthen the ties to the larger scope of the 17 UN SDGs.” 
 
Stefan Schaltegger 
“A lot of conceptual and theoretical advances have been made. Now more 
empirical research on transformational processes and effects are needed dealing 
with questions such as: How are conventional business models transformed to 
sustainable business models, in corporate practice and what are the challenges 
and benefits? Do, and if yes, how do companies with more sustainable business 
models contribute to market transformations?” 
 
 
 

 
 
Conference Programme  
1st July 2019 
 
 
 
 
Tangoloft 
5:00 pm 
- 
6:00 pm 
Welcome Reception 
Location: Tangoloft Berlin, Gerichtstraße 23, 13347 Berlin, www.tangoloft-berlin.de 
6:00 pm 
- 
7.30 pm 
Dive-in to Values-Based Innovation Management 
Location: Tangoloft Berlin 
 
Introductory Note: Dive-In to Values-Based Innovation Management 
Henning Breuer, UX Berlin Innovation Consulting, University of Applied Sciences HMKW 
 
Fishbowl Discussion 
Panelists: Henning Breuer, UX Berlin Innovation Consulting, University of Applied Sciences 
HMKW 
Philip Baumann, Ecosia, 
Roman Meier-Andrae TÜV Nord Mobilität 
7.30 pm 
- 
9:00 pm 
Get Together 
Location: Tangoloft Berlin 
 
 
Track 
 
Session Title 
Track 1 
Business models for a circular economy 
Track 2 
New business models, sustainable development, and corporate strategic management 
Track 3 
Social Entrepreneurship as a transformative force towards sustainability 
Track 4 
Circular communication in a circular economy: how social media communication shapes 
sustainable business models 
Track 5 
New business models for sustainable entrepreneurship 
Track 6 
Open Innovation Enabled by Emerging Technologies: What are the Implications for New 
Business Models? 
Track 7 
New business models for sustainability transition 
Track 8 
Insights on business models from young academics 
Track 9 
Sustainable business models for a sharing economy 
Track 10 
Practitioner Session (1): The Smart Business Modeler – Using Business Model Patterns  
 
(R. Bohnsack) 
Practitioner Session (2):  Climbing Mount Thriveability (R. Thurm) 
 
 
 

 
 
Conference Programme  
2nd July 2019 
 
 
 
 
Lecture 
Hall 1 
(K18) 
Lecture 
Hall 2 
(D-176) 
Lecture 
Hall 3 
(D-275) 
Lecture  
Hall 5 
(D-014) 
Seminar 
Room 
(D-008) 
Seminar 
Room 
(D-009) 
Seminar 
Room 
(D-011) 
Forum 
8:15 am 
- 
8:45 am 
Registration & Coffee 
Location: ESCP Europe Berlin Campus, Heubnerweg 8-10, 14059 Berlin 
8:45 am 
- 
9:00 am 
 Opening (Andreas Kaplan; Florian Lüdeke-Freund) 
9:00 am 
- 
10:30 am 
 Keynotes (Lorenzo Massa; Stefan Schaltegger) 
10:30 am 
- 
10:45 am 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coffee 
break 
10:45 am 
- 
12:15 pm 
 
Track 6 (1) 
 
 
Track 1 (1) Track 5 (1) Track 2 (1) 
 
12:15 pm 
- 
1:15 pm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunch 
1:15 pm 
- 
2:45 pm 
 
Track 6 (2) 
 
Track 3 (1) Track 1 (2) Track 5 (2) Track 2 (2) 
 
2:45 pm 
- 
3:15 pm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coffee 
break 
3:15 pm 
- 
4:45 pm 
 
Track 7 (1) Track 8 (1) Track 3 (2) Track 10 (1) 
Track 4 
 
 
5:00 pm 
- 
6:15 pm 
 ABC Panel Discussion 
6:15 pm 
- 
6:45 pm 
Transition to Boat (meet in front of ESCP Europe and walk to Caprivibrücke) 
6:45 pm 
- 
7:45 pm 
Boat Tour (starts at Caprivibrücke, ends at Märkisches Ufer/Fischerinsel) 
8:00 pm 
- 
open end 
Conference Dinner, Umspannerk Ost restaurant 
 
 

 
 
Conference Programme  
3rd July 2019 
 
 
 
 
Lecture  
Hall 1 
(K18) 
Lecture  
Hall 2 
(D-176) 
Lecture  
Hall 3 
(D-275) 
Lecture  
Hall 5 
(D-014) 
Seminar 
Room 
(D-008) 
Seminar 
Room 
(D-009) 
Seminar 
Room 
(D-011) 
Forum 
8:15 am   
- 
9:00 am 
Registration & Coffee 
Location: ESCP Europe Berlin Campus, Heubnerweg 8-10, 14059 Berlin 
9:00 am  
- 
10:30 am 
 Keynote (Nancy Bocken) + Editors Panel 
10:30 am 
- 
10:45 am 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coffee 
break 
10:45 am 
- 
12:15 pm 
 
Track 7 (2) 
 
Track 3 (3) Track 1 (3) Track 5 (3) 
 
 
12:15 pm 
- 
1:15 pm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunch 
1:15 pm 
- 
2:45 pm 
 
Track 7 (3) Track 8 (2) 
 
Track 1 (4) Track 5 (4) Track 2 (3) 
 
2:45 pm 
- 
3:15 pm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coffee 
break 
3:15 pm 
- 
4:45 pm 
 
Track 10 (2) Track 8 (3) 
 
Track 9 
 
Track 2 (4) 
 
5:00 pm 
- 
6:00 pm 
 Conference Closing & Outlook into NBM 2020 (Florian Lüdeke-Freund, Jan Jonker) 
 
 

 
 
Introductory Note & Fishbowl Discussion 
Dive-In to Values-Based Innovation Management 
 
 
Values, i.e. notions of the desirable, guide individuals as well as organisations into 
our common future. If they are appropriately understood and applied, values 
provide a powerful lever for innovation management. In particular, business 
model Innovation cannot be well understood, designed, or managed without 
recurring to values and normative orientations of the stakeholders being involved. 
Pro-environmental companies such as Ecosia exemplify the potentials of values-
based business development, but also established corporations attending to 
customer values learned how to manage innovation based on what we care about 
This, we will learn from and discuss with our guests: Philip Baumann of Ecosia, 
Roman Meier-Andrae of TÜV Nord Mobility, and Prof. Dr. Henning Breuer. 
 
 
Speaker & Facilitator 
 
PROF. DR. HENNING BREUER is founder of UXBerlin – Innovation 
Consulting (www.uxberlin.com), and professor for business and 
media psychology at the University of Applied Sciences for Media, 
Communication and Business in Berlin, Germany. Since 2001, he 
has provided strategic consulting on future scenarios, new 
business models and ethnographic insights for large companies, 
young start-ups and public organisations. As visiting professor and researcher he 
worked at Waseda University (Tokyo), the University of Chile (Santiago), and the 
University of Applied Sciences in Potsdam. His recent textbook, together with 
Florian Lüdeke-Freund, is on Values-Based Innovation Management (Palgrave, 
2017).  
 
 
Participants 
 
PHILIP BAUMANN is Head of Product at Ecosia, the search engine that plants 
trees. Please click here to find out more: www.linkedin.com/in/philipbaumann/  
 
ROMAN MEIER-ANDRAE is Head of Corporate IT & Digitalisation as well as a 
Member of the Executive Board at TÜV Nord Mobilität. Please click here to find 
out more: www.linkedin.com/in/romanma/  
 
Date and place 
July 1st, 2019, 6pm to 7:30 pm, Tangoloft, Gerichtstraße 23, 13347 Berlin  
 
 

 
 
Keynotes 
Cognition in Business Model Innovation research and practice 
 
 
DR. LORENZO MASSA 
Recent development in business model (BM) research suggest that 
a BM may resemble what students of complexity have referred to 
as a complex system – a system made of numerous parts which are 
linked by non-obvious interdependencies. The notion of 
complexity and of a complex system, I argue, have important 
implications for several areas related to business models and business models 
innovation, 
including 
modelling 
and 
visual 
representation, 
cognition, 
communication or measurement. And yet, the received business model research 
on this topic is scant. I aim at offering what in my view are some of the important 
insights we can gain from more convincingly exploring the meaning and 
significance of complexity for business model research and practice. 
Lorenzo Massa is adjunct professor at University of Bologna, department of 
Management. He has been scientist at the College du Management (CDM – CSI 
and GERG), visiting scholar at the Wharton School (UPENN), visiting researcher at 
MIT Sloan School of Management, and Assistant professor at Vienna University of 
Economics (WU). He teaches in Executive MBA, MBA and Master programs. He sits 
on the board of EPFL based Innovation Forum Lausanne (IFL) and he is expert 
mentor for Mass Challenge Switzerland.  
His research lies at the intersection between strategy, innovation management 
and sustainability and has been published on outlets such as the Academy of 
Management Annals, the Journal of Management and the Oxford Handbook of 
Innovation Management. Massa holds graduate degrees with distinctions in 
Mechanical Engineering from the Dublin Institute of Technology (B.Eng.) and the 
University of Genoa (M.Sc. Eng.) and a Ph.D. in Management from IESE Business 
School. 
 
 

 
 
Keynotes 
Sustainability transformation and new business models: The role of 
sustainable entrepreneurs, incremental and radical innovations 
 
 
PROF. DR. DR. h.c. STEFAN SCHALTEGGER 
A sustainability transition of the economy and society requires 
sustainability transformations of the core business of companies, 
their products, supply chains, and thus their business models. 
Extant research literature has furthermore identified sustainable 
entrepreneurs as key actors initiating and managing sustainability 
transformations at different levels, such as the organizational, supply chain, 
customer, competitor and societal level. While the existing sustainable 
entrepreneurship literature has addressed the general ambition and role of 
entrepreneurs for sustainability transformations and while the business model 
literature has emphasized the role of business model design and transformation 
for corporate sustainability, the links between the two have not been explored, so 
far. This presentation raises the question how the design of a sustainable business 
model and different transformational processes and impacts managed by a 
company are or could be linked. 
Stefan Schaltegger, PhD, is professor for sustainability management, head of the 
Centre for Sustainability Management (CSM) and the MBA programme at 
Leuphana University Lüneburg, Germany. The focus of his more than 450 
publications is on sustainable entrepreneurship, practices and methods of 
corporate sustainability, including business models, stakeholder theory, and 
sustainability performance measurement, accounting and management. Stefan 
Schaltegger is a member of the editorial board of sixteen international scientific 
journals and member of the jury of the German Sustainability Award. He is a 
methods partner of the Next Economy Award, an award for sustainable start-ups, 
chairman of the Steering Committee of the European Environmental Management 
Accounting Network (EMAN), and has served as member of the steering 
committees and boards of various companies and research programmes of the 
German Federal Ministry for Science and Education and the Swiss National Science 
Foundation.  
 
 

 
 
Keynotes 
Circular business model experiments – Exploration of the role of 
business experiments in wider societal transitions 
 
 
PROF. DR. NANCY BOCKEN 
This talk will discuss concepts of business model experimentation 
and the ‘ecology of business models’ notion to explore the 
potential role of business in driving the wider Circular Economy 
transition. Business model experimentation for a circular 
economy is about the much needed (re-)design of business 
models that slow, close and narrow resource loops. Such experimentation is 
necessary to (1) set in motion transitions within organizations, and, (2) test which 
new business models are most suitable. To assess the real impact of new business 
models, the ‘ecologies of business models’ approach analyses the symbiotic and 
competitive relations between new and existing business models. For example, to 
what extent do clothing take-back services reduce the environmental impact of 
consumption, or worsen it via legitimizing a growing consumerism culture? 
Nancy Bocken is Professor in Sustainable Business Management and Practice at 
Lund University, IIIEE in Sweden. She focuses on different approaches for 
sustainable business innovation such as experimentation and business model 
innovation. She is also Associate Professor at TU Delft, Industrial Design 
Engineering and Fellow at the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability 
Leadership, and Visiting professor at Lappeenranta University of Technology and 
Maastricht University. She co-founded HOMIE who are involved in ‘pay per use’ 
business models, starting with washing machines, to drive sustainable 
consumption and ‘circularity’. 
 
 

 
 
ABC Panel – Academic / Business / Consulting  
 
 
RETHINKING STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT: CAN BUSINESS LEAD THE WAY TO A 
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE? 
 
In the last thirty years, the link of strategy and sustainability has come a long way 
both in business practice and academia. However, in spite of many technical 
advances, some political progress, and the efforts by thousands of corporate and 
NGO organizations during recent decades, sustainable conduct is not reflected in 
the current state of our socio-ecological systems. Natural scientists and global risk 
assessments continue to express great urgency for cross-sectoral and 
transformative collaborative action toward positive systems impact. But who will 
take the lead for this vital journey? Major investment firms call on “business to 
lead, not just live, with purpose”. This hands-on “ABC” (Academic, Business, 
Consulting) panel seeks to answer the question, “CAN business lead the way to a 
sustainable future?” Does the corporate sector have sufficient comprehension and 
concern of the magnitude and pace of disruptive socio-ecological developments 
in its operating environment? Does it have sufficient actionable knowledge about 
how to make business sense of sustainability at this time in the 21st century? What 
else might be required to take the lead? Management researchers, business 
representatives and consultants with extensive experience will try to answer these 
questions from the perspective of their professional and institutional contexts. 
Impetus and foundation for this panel has been our collaboration in development 
of the book ‘Rethinking Strategic Management. Sustainable Strategizing for 
Positive Impact’ (in-press, 2019) from Springer. Additional perspectives and details 
from a dozen other authors are also included in this publication. With this panel 
we want to build on and continue this discussion.  
 
Panel Chair 
PROF. DR. THOMAS WUNDER spent the early part of his career as a 
strategy consultant and strategy practitioner for Horváth & Partners 
Management Consultants in both the EU and USA. He was 
associated with the Balanced Scorecard Collaborative (BSCol) in 
Boston and an affiliate of the North Highland Company in Atlanta, 
where he helped to build Cordence Worldwide, a large-scale global 
alliance of local consulting firms with over 2.800 experts in more than 65 offices 
today. In all these years, Thomas supported executive leadership teams of MNCs 
at various organizational levels. In 2010, Thomas transitioned to academia as a full 
professor of Strategic Management at the Neu-Ulm University of Applied Sciences 
in Bavaria, Germany, where he is leading the Master of Advanced Management 
program. Since then he has dedicated his research, writing and teaching to the 
integration of corporate strategy with sustainability, which is summarized in 

 
 
Essentials of Strategic Management. Effective Formulation and Execution of 
Strategy in 2016. He also edited a practitioner-oriented German book on CSR und 
Strategic Management (2017) as well as Rethinking Strategic Management. 
Sustainable Strategizing for Positive Impact (2019) for Springer. 
 
Panelists 
PETRA KUENKEL is a full Member of the International Club of Rome and the 
Executive Director of the Collective Leadership Institute, a Germany and South 
Africa based social enterprise building collaboration competency for 
transformative change. As a seasoned systems scientist, visionary author and 
expert 
in 
complex 
multi-stakeholder 
settings 
she 
promotes 
systems 
transformations by scaling-up collective stewardship skills for decision-makers 
from corporations, public sector and civil society. With her educational 
background in change management, organizational psychology and political 
science she has profound international experiences in corporate change, 
development cooperation and policy implementation. She is a leading strategic 
advisor to pioneering international initiatives that tackle sustainability challenges. 
Based on successful transformation processes, she developed the dialogic change 
methodology and the Collective Leadership Compass, a guiding tool for navigating 
change in complex multi-actor settings. Kuenkel’s ground-breaking publication 
The Art of Leading Collectively received international attention; her writings have 
appeared in numerous professional journals as well as the Guardian and 
Huffington Post. For more information, please visit www.collectiveleadership.com 
or www.clubofrome.org. 
 
ALEXANDER MEYER ZUM FELDE is a principal in the Hamburg office of The Boston 
Consulting Group. He is BCG’s expert principal on sustainability. His fields of 
expertise include sustainability strategy, circular economy, sustainable investing 
and climate change. He has supported clients across the world and in every major 
industry concerning sustainability opportunities. Moreover, he is responsible to 
manage BCG’s external relations with Sustainability Partners and Academia 
concerning sustainability topics. 
 
RUEDIGER A. ROEHRIG is Managing Partner of SGA, leads The Natural Step 
Germany and is international council member. SGA, a certified B Corp and 
European network organization, advocates context-driven, purposeful innovation 
leadership in business, by practicing holistic approaches to people, operations and 
strategy development. As the representative of the non-profit The Natural Step in 
Germany, SGA collaborates with 10 other offices around the world, to advocate 
The Natural Step Framework for Strategic Sustainable Development (FSSD). 
Ruediger looks back at 30 years of professional experience in industries such as 
aeronautics, automotive, machine and plant manufacturing, and renewable 
energies, in almost all strategic and operative functions, working at, amongst 

 
 
others, Siemens Automotive and Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. Engaging 
with SGA clients as entrepreneur, interim manager, consultant, trainer and coach, 
he combines strategic thinking with hands-on operational experience and sound 
leadership experience. Ruediger has a degree in aerospace engineering (Dipl.-Ing.) 
of the University of the German Armed Forces, Munich. 
 
GEANNE VAN ARKEL is Head of Sustainable Development for Interface in Europe 
and holds a master’s degree in Biomimicry from the Arizona State University. She 
focuses on sustainable development within and outside the company Interface. 
She links individuals and companies to assist each other on the path toward 
sustainable innovation. The approach she takes is developing regenerative, 
inclusive, circular new business models and partnerships by learning from natures. 
Design with purpose, passion, full product transparency and open communication 
are the fundamentals of inspiring others in discovering the opportunities of 
sustainability. According to Geanne, creativity, collaboration and sharing 
knowledge are crucial for accelerating the required system change towards an 
inclusive circular bio-based low carbon economy in which the Sustainable 
Development Goals are achieved by 2030. 
 
PROF. DR. DR. h.c. STEFAN SCHALTEGGER is professor for sustainability 
management, head of the Centre for Sustainability Management (CSM) and the 
MBA programme at Leuphana University Lüneburg, Germany. The focus of his 
more than 450 publications is on sustainable entrepreneurship, practices and 
methods of corporate sustainability, including business models, stakeholder 
theory, and sustainability performance measurement, accounting and 
management. 
 
 
 

 
 
Journal Panel 
 
Publishing in scientific journals is important for every researcher, particularly for 
early-stage researchers who have to publish in high-quality journals to make a 
career in academia. But sometimes it is not an easy task to identify the optimal 
journal for articles dealing with business model topics. This gets even more 
challenging when these articles deal with sustainability issues, as this brings 
together two domains: business model and sustainability research. 
The experts on our panel will discuss such challenges from an editor’s perspective 
to offer a ‘behind-the-scenes’ perspective on what happens when journals have 
to deal with topics that are rather new, less ‘mainstream’, and maybe beyond their 
traditional disciplinary boundaries. 
 
Panelists 
DROR ETZION is an Associate Professor of strategy and organizations at the 
Desautels Faculty of Management, and an associate member of the McGill School 
of the Environment.  He is currently a Senior Editor at Organization Studies. Dror's 
research focuses on “grand challenges”: the unyielding, intractable problems that 
characterize the Anthropocene. His work suggests that managing for sustainability 
through local, open, emergent initiatives increases the recruitment of diverse 
stakeholders, fosters creativity, and yields impactful outcomes.  In other work he 
is examining business approaches to managing the energy-water nexus. His 
research has been published in Academy of Management Review, Journal of 
Management, Nature Sustainability, Organization Science, Organization Studies, 
Strategic Management Journal and other outlets. 
 
MORTEN LUND is Associate Professor and Center Director at Business Model 
Design Center. Morten is an experienced entrepreneur and executive manager, 
who founded, consulted, and invested in multiple ventures with disruptive 
business models. Morten co-founded the Business Design Center He has a 
combined academic, pragmatic, and creative profile, leveraging the link between 
research and industry. His educational background is an M.Sc. in Business 
Economics, with specialization in organization and business strategy. Further, he 
holds a Ph.D. degree in business models from the Technical Faculty at Aalborg 
University, Denmark. Morten is currently most involved in management, but 
teaches in business models on both master and bachelor level at Aalborg 
University and Copenhagen Business School.  
 
YULIYA SNIHUR is an Associate Professor of Strategy, Entrepreneurship, and 
Innovation at the Toulouse Business School, France. Yuliya teaches and studies 
strategy-formation processes in new ventures and the evolution of strategic 
management in existing firms based on the analysis of firms’ business models. She 

 
 
is researching the role of time and language in strategy-making by applying 
theories of organizational imprinting, complexity, and cognitive framing. To this 
end, she uses hand-collected interview data, fieldwork, and longitudinal datasets 
to build theory. Yuliya has published in such journals as Academy of Management 
Journal, Journal of Management Studies, Long Range Planning, and Strategic 
Entrepreneurship Journal. Yuliya was the finalist for the 2018 Academy of 
Management 
Organization 
and 
Management 
Theory 
division’s 
Best 
Entrepreneurship Paper Award and has received the 2014 Heizer Dissertation 
Award by the Academy of Management Entrepreneurship division. She serves as 
Associate Editor at Long Range Planning. Yuliya received her PhD in management 
from the IESE Business School (Barcelona, Spain), prior to which she worked in 
corporate finance.  
 
PETER WELLS has an MSc in Planning and a PhD on the socio-economic 
consequences of military R&D. He is Director of the Centre for Automotive 
Industry Research and Head of Logistics and Operations Management at Cardiff 
Business School. His research and publishing interests are focused on the global 
automotive industry, mobility studies including electric bicycles and car-sharing, 
and on sustainable business models in the circular economy. He has 70 academic 
journal papers, 6 books, 32 book chapters, 5 edited books, 81 reports in the public 
domain, 176 academic and industry conference papers, 270 industry journal and 
website papers, and 68 other Internet papers. He has conducted or participated 
in over 70 research projects. He is currently engaged in two major research 
projects: A H2020 study on car sharing called STARS (http://stars-h2020.eu/) and 
an 
EPSRC 
study 
on 
recycling 
car 
batteries 
called 
ReLib 
(https://faraday.ac.uk/recycle-reuse/). 
In terms of academic disciplines his work has ranged across spatial industrial 
development, economics, organisational theory, industrial ecology, technological 
change, socio-technical transitions theory, business model innovation and 
sustainability. His research and consulting on the automotive industry has involved 
companies throughout the value chain, national and international government 
bodies, and NGOs. 
 
ROMANA RAUTER is a specialist in the field of Corporate Sustainability and 
Innovation Management. She works as an Assistant Professor at the Institute of 
Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Research at University of Graz. 
Austria. Her research and teaching interests include sustainability innovation, new 
and sustainable business models as well as strategic sustainability management. 
Romana is member of the Permanent Scientific Committee of the International 
Conference on New Business Models, recently acted as Guest Editor for the 
Journal of Cleaner Production and is currently active as Associate Editor (ONE 
Division) for the 2019 Academy of Management Meeting. She received her PhD in 
Social and Economic Sciences with a thesis addressing the topic of inter-
organisational knowledge transfer between research institutions and SMEs. 

 
 
Conference Tracks 
  
 
TRACK I  
BUSINESS MODELS FOR A CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
 
Chairs: Niels Faber, Jan Jonker, and Abhishek Agarwal 
 
TRACK II  NEW 
BUSINESS 
MODELS, 
SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT 
& 
CORPORATE STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT 
 
Chairs: Romana Rauter, Yuliya Snihur, and Christian Nielsen 
 
TRACK III  SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP AS A TRANSFORMATIVE FORCE 
TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY 
Chairs: Nikolay Dentchev, Philippe Eiselein, and Abel Alan Diaz 
Gonzalez 
 
TRACK IV CIRCULAR COMMUNICATION IN A CIRCULAR ECONOMY, HOW 
SOCIAL MEDIA COMMUNICATION SHAPES SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 
MODELS 
 
Chairs: Deike Schulz and Niels Faber 
 
TRACK V  NEW BUSINESS MODELS FOR SUSTAINABLE ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
 
Chairs: Matthew Johnson, René Mauer, and Stefan Schaltegger 
 
TRACK VI  OPEN INNOVATION ENABLED BY EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES: WHAT 
ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR NEW BUSINESS MODELS? 
Chairs: Maya Hoveskog, Emma Incze, Fawzi Halila, Markus 
Raatikainen, Stephen Davies, and Antony Upward 
 
TRACK VII NEW BUSINESS MODELS FOR SUSTAINABILITY TRANSITION 
 
Chair: Jan Jonker 
 
TRACK VIII  INSIGHTS ON BUSINESS MODELS FROM YOUNG ACADEMICS 
 
Chairs: Ana Paula Barquet and Martin Glinik 
 
TRACK IX  SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODELS FOR A SHARING ECONOMY 
 
Chair: Frederik Plewnia 
 
TRACK X  PRACTITIONER SESSIONS  
 
Facilitators: Ralph Thurm (workshop 1), René Bohnsack (workshop 2) 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
BUSINESS MODELS FOR 
A CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
TRACK I 

 
 
Track I: Business Models For A Circular Economy 
 
Chairs: Niels Faber1, Jan Jonker2, and Abhishek Agarwal3 
1 Nijmegen School of Management & Hanze University of Applied Sciences; 
Netherlands; 2Nijmegen School of Management, Netherlands; 3Scottish Robert 
Gordon University, Aberdeen Business School, UK 
 
Business models based on linear thinking create a pattern (take, make, dispose) 
where the extraction of resources, production, and use lead to unwanted side 
effects seen as negative externalities such as waste, pollution or social exclusion. 
The underlying concept of transformative value-creation based on so-called 
double-obsolescence is counterproductive to address nowadays-pressing societal 
and environmental challenges. The Circular Economy (CE) is one of the 
perspectives that might offer innovative and radical solutions at the system level 
to tackle these wicked problems. Strategically speaking, it revolves around 
organizing value preservation, restoration, and revitalization. The transition to a 
circular economy requires a rethinking of supply chains into value cycles, forming 
the building blocks of a system transition. The circular economy aims to integrate 
externalities giving way to a new generation of business models. These are based 
on organizing closed loops and driven by principles such as design for circularity, 
decomposability, and strategies to optimize the use of functionalities. Given this 
rather one-sided material perspective we explicitly add to this view the need to 
incorporate social inclusiveness. Recent research shows that at present, an 
estimated 9% of our economy can be categorized as circular.  
In this session, which is the fourth in a row with the same subject after 
NBM@Toulouse (2016), NBM@Graz (2017) and NBM@Sofia (2018), we like to 
explore once more the consequences of this thinking on the creation and 
adaptation of business models for the circular economy. In particular, we focus on 
three subjects, namely (1) organizing closed loops (leading to a coherent 
typology), (2) strategies that enhance the use of functionality and (3) the 
promoting social inclusiveness. 
 
 

 
 
A Business Model Typology for  
Valorising Agro-waste and By-products 
 
Mechthild Donner1,*, Romane Gohier1, Hugo de Vries2 
 
1 INRA – French National Institute for Agricultural Research, UMR 
MOISA, Montpellier, France; 2 INRA – French National Institute for 
Agricultural Research, UMR IATE, Montpellier, France  
 
*Corresponding author: mechthild.donner@inra.fr  
 
This project NoAW (http://noaw2020.eu/) has received funding from the 
European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation program under grant 
agreement No 688338.  
 
Extended abstract  
Circular economy is a more recent economic model that aims to reconcile 
economic growth with the preservation of the environment. It is based on the 
insight that our natural resources are limited and that with a population estimated 
to reach 9 billion people in 2050, the current linear ‘take-make-dispose’ model is 
no longer sustainable (EMF 2013). New and sustainable business models are 
needed for a transition to a circular economy. One potential business approach 
consists of creating value from waste via technological-oriented business model 
innovations (Bocken et al. 2014).  
Our research aim is to identify and characterise different types of business models 
that valorise agricultural waste and by-products via cascading or closing loops. To 
our knowledge, no coherent circular business model typology has been developed 
so far for the agricultural sector. 
Valorising agro-waste and by-products is challenging due to the heterogeneity, 
seasonality and perishability of resources, the changes in volumes and quality over 

 
 
time and regions, and the variety of conversion steps and end-uses sectors. 
Moreover, there are different valorisation opportunities in alternative sectors 
leading to new products and applications, with a lower or higher value, as outlined 
in the value pyramid for biomass valorisation (Rood et al. 2017). From a business 
perspective, valorising agro-waste requires a new vision of customer-supplier 
relationships, new forms of organization and new marketing strategies, at the 
crossroads of various value chains. 
In general, the business model still represents ‘a slippery construct to study’ 
(Casadesus-Masanell and Zhu 2013), as there is neither consensus on the 
definition nor on the conceptualisation, and a lack of a common theoretical 
framework (Zott et al. 2011, Spieth et al. 2014). However, advancing business 
models concepts and theory is important for describing and classifying businesses, 
for scientific investigation, and/or to develop practical recommendations and 
facilitate decision-making for managers (Baden-Fuller and Morgan 2010; Taran 
and Boer 2015). Until now, several propositions have been made of how to 
categorize sustainable or circular business models (Lewandowski, 2016). The 
ReSOLVE framework proposed by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation is based on the 
different strategies ‘regenerate, share, optimise, loop, virtualize, exchange’ (EMF 
2013). Bocken et al. (2014) divide sustainable business models into eight 
archetypes which are classified in higher order groupings and describe the main 
type of business model innovation: technological, social or organisational. Stubbs 
and Cocklin (2008) are tempting to develop an ideal type of a sustainability 
oriented business model. According to Fielt (2013), a characterisation of each 
business model type should include specific classification criteria (e.g. level of 
innovation) and business model framework elements, such as customer, value 
proposition, organisational structure, economics and/or other value dimensions. 
For our aim, we have selected six cases from Europe (out of 33 international cases 
studied in the H2020 project NOAW) that convert agricultural by-products into 
valuable products via a circular economy (cascading or closing loops) approach. 
These six cases have been selected because they represent well six different types 
of circular business models for valorising agro-waste and by-products and because 
they belong to one region, however with different local contexts (which will allow 
us to further study these contexts but under similar conditions). Qualitative semi-
structured interviews and on-site visits have been performed for these cases 
except for one that is largely documented in online articles and academic 
literature (Schieb et al. 2014, Thénot and Honorine, 2017). All cases have been 
analysed according to the type of initiative, resources and transformation 

 
 
processes, value propositions, key partners, customers, strategic approaches and 
type of business model innovation (table 1).  
 
 

 
 
Table 1: Cases analysed 
 
Case 1  
Case 2  
Case 3  
Case 4  
Case 5  
Case 6  
Type of  
initiative 
Farmer 
with a 
biogas 
plant 
University 
spin-off 
Eco-industrial 
cluster 
Local cluster 
of 
stakeholders 
Union of 
wine  
cooperatives 
Agribusiness 
park 
Resources and 
transformatio
n 
process  
Pig manure 
&  
vegetables; 
anaerobic 
digestion  
Cow manure & 
wine;  
anaerobic 
digestion 
Cereals and 
sugar cane  
by-products; 
full scale  
biorefinery 
Organic 
urban food 
and agro-
waste;  
anaerobic  
digestion  
By-products 
from wine; 
extraction 
process 
Combined 
heat 
electricity and 
water 
recirculation 
systems 
Value  
proposition 
Biogas,  
electricity, 
fertiliser 
Electricity, 
fertilisers, PHA 
for bio-
materials 
Plant proteins 
Biogas,  
network 
Compost,  
ingredients 
for food & 
pharma  
industries 
Heat,  
electricity 
Key partners  
Local  
farmers 
Cooperative, 
two other 
universities 
Agrofood  
enterprises,  
research 
Local  
authorities,  
enterprises 
and research 
Cooperative
s and 
research 
Vegetable 
producers 
(greenhouses) 
and traders 
Customers 
Public  
suppliers 
and private 
households 
(electricity)
, 
wholesaler 
(fertiliser) 
Feed-in of  
electricity 
Enterprises 
Local  
enterprises 
Enterprises 
Data-centres 
use  
electricity and 
produce heat 
for 
greenhouses 
Strategic  
approach 
Enlarge 
product 
portfolio 
for mixed 
market  
sectors 
Innovation, 
upscaling,  
pilot-scale 
demonstration
, 
consultancy 
New markets 
for large  
volumes of by-
products 
Support for 
networking, 
niche 
strategy 
(organic) 
Innovation, 
mixed  
market  
sectors 
Networking, 
economies of 
scale 
Innovation 
type 
Technical 
Technical 
Organisational
, 
technical  
Social,  
organisationa
l 
Technical 
Organisationa
l 
 
The cases differ in their way of value creation (from lower to higher value) and/or 
in their organisational structure as shown in figure 1: (1) biogas plant, (2) upcycling 
entrepreneurship, (3) environmental biorefinery, (4) support structure, (5) 
agricultural cooperative and (6) agropark. 
 
 
 

 
 
Figure 1: Typology of circular business models for valorising agro-waste and by-
products 
 
The typology shows the diversity but also a complementarity of circular business 
models for valorising agro-waste and by-products. The identification of various 
value creation mechanisms and types of valorisation pathways highlights the 
importance of exploiting biomass firstly for higher-added-value products, before 
using it as an energy source. Cascading biomass use plays a key role in the 
development of the circular economy. The typology is useful because it classifies 
best practices serving as reference for other businesses, while visualising also 
evolutions in the typology. The classification also helps investors and resource or 
equipment suppliers understand the positioning and long-term perspectives of 
the business. It even may serve to reveal potential innovations and unsolved R&D 
issues. The typology is unique as an overarching model and in its specificity for the 
agricultural sector; it therefore contributes to a better conceptual understanding 
of circular business models. However, it should not be considered as static: some 
initiatives tend to move from one type to another according to their business 
development strategy and also because their existence and continuity depend on 
context-specific conditions (e.g. biogas plants often need product or marketing 
innovations as they depend on public subsidies being limited in time). The 
boundary conditions should be investigated more in-depth in relation to the type 
of business model. Also, typical agricultural characteristics still need to be 
integrated in the framework such as heterogeneity, fluctuating volumes of 
resources, flexibility in production due to seasonality, and consequences for 
markets who are traditionally not facing large fluctuations in product outputs (like 
chemical products) in terms of volumes and product specificities. These would 
make potential bottlenecks transparent.  

 
 
Keywords 
Circular economy, business models, typology, agro-waste and by-products 
References 
Baden-Fuller, C. & Morgan, M. S. (2010) Business models as models. Long range 
planning. 43 (2-3), 156-171. 
Bocken, N. M., Short, S. W., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner 
production. 65 (2014), 42-56. 
Casadesus‐Masanell, R. & Zhu, F. (2013) Business model innovation and 
competitive imitation: The case of sponsor‐based business models. Strategic 
management journal. 34 (4), 464-482. 
EMF - Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2013) Towards the circular economy.  
Economic and business rationale for an accelerated transition.  
Fielt, E. (2013). Conceptualising business models: Definitions, frameworks and 
classifications. Journal of Business Models. 1(1), 85-105. 
Lewandowski, M. (2016) Designing the business models for circular economy - 
towards the conceptual framework. Sustainability. 8 (43), 1-28. 
Rood, T., Muilwijk, H. & Westhoek, H. (2017) Food for the circular economy. PBL 
Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency. (2878), 41. 
Schieb, P.-A., Lescieux-Katir, H., Thénot, M. & Clément-Larosière, B. (2014) 
Bioraffinerie 2030 une question d’avenir. Editions l’Harmattan. 
Spieth, P., Schneckenberg, D. & Ricart, J. E. (2014) Business model innovation–
state of the art and future challenges for the field. R&D Management. 44 (3), 
237-247. 
Stubbs, W. & Cocklin, C. (2008) Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”. 
Organization & Environment. 21 (2), 103-127. 
Taran, Y., Boer, H. & Lindgren, P. (2015) A business model innovation typology. 
Decision Sciences. 46 (2), 301-331. 
Thénot, M. & Honorine, K. (2017). La bioéconomie industrielle à l’échelle d’une 
région : la bioraffinerie de Bazancourt-Pomacle, tremplin d’une stratégie 
territoriale. Annales des Mines - Réalités industrielles. 02 (1), 66-70.  
Zott, C., Amit, R. & Massa, L. (2011) The business model: recent developments and 
future research. Journal of management. 37 (4), 1019-1042. 

 
 
Anaerobic digestion business models 
in the UK and the circular economy 
Abhishek Agarwal, Robert Flanders 
Robert Gordon University, United Kingdom 
Abstract 
The UK anaerobic digestion (AD) industry has seen a surge in the implementation 
of new business models over the last decade (Savills World Research, 2018), 
perhaps due to recent legislation and a shift towards a more circular economy 
(CE). However, the AD industry faces challenges as a result of the increased 
competition for the feedstocks and the increased land use. This limits the AD 
industry potential to contribute to the transition to a circular economy. There are 
limited research / case studies, that document the innovative AD business models 
and the multitude of value they offer, that align to the circular economy principles. 
Therefore, this study aims to critically evaluate a variety of AD business models to 
understand their challenges in order to effectively partake in the transition to a 
circular economy. This study will use a qualitative method and will draw upon four 
operational and uniquely contrasting AD plants in the UK and semi-structured 
interviews of twenty representatives from the UK AD sector, policy makers and 
supporting institutions. We would utilise thematic approach to analyse interview 
data This study would contribute towards the understanding of how AD business 
models are evolving and changing, and how they could effectively contribute to 
the transition to a circular economy. Additionally, by identifying the challenges 
currently faced by the AD business models, recommendations will be drawn to 
offer real value to both AD developers in the UK and to the literature on transition 
to a circular economy. 
Keywords 
anaerobic digestion; circular economy; business models 
 
 

 
 
Analyzing co-creation in business 
models as going circular 
 
Sofia Ritzén1,*, Annabeth Aagaard2,  
Johan Arekrans3, Rafael Laurenti4  
 
134KTH Royal Institute of Technology 
Dept. Integrated Product Development, 
Sweden, Stockholm 
 
2Aarhus University,  
Dept. Business Development & Technology,  
Denmark, Herning 
 
* ritzen@kth.se 
 
Extended abstract  
Recently, novel business ideas and concepts have emerged to address the urgent 
need to substantially improve resource performance across the economy and 
decrease the environmental impacts from consumption and production activities. 
The concept of Circular Economy (CE) has attracted an increasing amount of 
interest not only from academia but also from businesses, since one of the 
cornerstone objectives is to increase profit whilst decreasing environmental 
impacts (Ghisellini et al., 2016). In the quest of a transition from a linear to a 
circular economy, businesses from diverse sectors have started to explore ways to 
reuse products or their components and restore more of their precious material, 
energy and labor inputs (Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 2013).   
 
The business potentials of businesses and business models going circular are vast 
as identified by Nasr (2011) who suggest that material and energy reductions 
through remanufacturing of 80 per cent may be within reach. According to 
Urbinati, Chiaroni and Chiesa (2017) circular economy business models can be 
explored based on the degree of adoption of circularity along two major 
dimensions: (i) the customer value proposition & interface, i.e. the 
implementation of the circularity concept in proposing value to customers; (ii) the 

 
 
value network, i.e. the ways through which interacting with suppliers and 
reorganizing the own internal activities. In the study by Linder and Williander 
(2017, p. 183) a circular business model (CBM) is defined as a business model in 
which the conceptual logic for value creation is based on utilizing economic value 
retained in products after use in the production of new offerings. Thus, a circular 
business model implies a return flow to the producer from users, though there can 
be intermediaries between the two parties. 
 
In this context, despite the vast increase of studies on the topic of CE published in 
the last few years, little attention has been devoted to the effect that CE may have 
on sustainability and development of circular business models (Parida and 
Wincent, 2019). Some scholars have argued that, evidently, clear and active 
approaches to include sustainability in business strategy and business models 
should be of interest to practitioners, as reactive measures from legislation or for 
marketing purposes are generally not a significant contributor to the objectives of 
the organization (Rashid et al., 2013). Thus, the development of successful CBMs 
calls for integration with customers and collaboration spanning the entire value 
chain (Ibid.). In practice however, a recent study has documented that many firms 
experience a lack of integration of sustainability issues in business development, 
typically hampering a transition to CE (Ritzén and Ölundh Sandström, 2017).  
 
Successful closed-loop manufacturing systems and CBM call for integration with 
customers and collaboration spanning the entire value chain (Rashid et al., 2013). 
In this novel context of innovation ecosystems for going circular, organizations 
need to act within a value network in order to succeed. Even more, the silos of 
consumers and producers are breaking, and the point of contact is no longer 
simply transactional, instead, the market becomes a forum for co-creation of value 
(Prahalad and Ramaswamy, 2004). Consequently, the process to co-create mutual 
value could become a learning experience shared between both parties (Payne et 
al., 2008), setting new challenges for organizational capacity to absorb the new 
knowledge and rapidly adapt accordingly. It strongly relates to the business 
models of the organizations as value is no longer created within an organization 
but in exchange of different actors. 
 
Therefore, the authors of this abstract have started to analyze a number of 
organizations that are in a starting point to develop a circular economy business 
model or have reached their first results of establishing businesses based on 
closing material loops. The analysis is focused on describing the core business 
strategy that these organizations have defined for going circular and specifically 
scrutinizing the actions (or non-actions) of co-creation that occurs in their value 
network. Chosen organizations are three large mature OEMs, both B2C and B2B, 
and a small C2C service provider. A summary of the included cases is can be found 
in Table 1 below. Qualitative data has been collected in the form of recorded 
interviews with cases A-D, as well as notetaking during workshops with case C and 
D respectively. 

 
 
 
Table 1: Description of company cases included in this study. 
 
The use of multiple cases provides an opportunity to highlight some key contextual 
differences and similarities in the challenges and opportunities the cases face in 
going circular. These empirical illustrations of organizations fully in action of 
innovating their business models reveal some interesting issues regarding co-
creation. The four cases all have different experiences with co-creation, but overall 
it is not regarded as a prioritized activity. However, for case C, the success of a 

 
 
recent project related to CE was highly dependent on co-creation together with 
their customers. How this successful project further develops how the 
organization fosters continued work with co-creation is to be explored. 
Case A and case D are in different industries, yet share some organizational 
characteristics and are at a similar stage in how they relate to CE. Both companies 
have been operating for very many years, with long traditions of product 
development and manufacturing, posing a challenge for the introduction of new 
business models. As their new endeavors towards CE are developing, it is clear 
that co-creation needs much more consideration not only with existing users, 
retailers and suppliers, but also with new organizations such as waste 
management firms.  
Finally, case B provides an interesting contrast. As a sharing platform provider, 
they are a new actor navigating in a landscape dominated by traditional 
consumerism. In order to grow, they are looking for ways of co-creating with 
established organizations, who are not yet sure how to react to this new actor. 
Furthermore, by offering a digital service, they are highly dependent on how they 
co-create with a broad user community, and currently face a challenge of low user 
retention rate.  
Keywords 
Circular economy, circular business models, value network, co-creation  
 
 

 
 
References 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2013) Towards the Circular Economy. Available 
from: 
https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/assets/downloads/publication
s/Ellen-MacArthur-Foundation-Towards-the-Circular-Economy-vol.1.pdf 
[Accessed 29 Jan. 2019]. 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C. and Ulgiati, S. (2016) A review on circular economy: The 
expected transition to a balanced interplay of environmental and economic 
systems. Journal of Cleaner Production. 114: 11–32. 
Linder, M. and Willander, M. (2017) Circular Business Model Innovation: Inherent 
Uncertainties. Business Strategy and the Environment. 26: 182–196. 
Nasr N. (2011) Real-world remanufacturing. Industrial Engineer 43(6): 24–24. 
Parida, V. and Wincent, J. (2019) Why and how to compete through sustainability: 
a review and outline of trends influencing firm and network-level 
transformation. International Entrepreneurship and Management Journal. 
In-press. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11365-019-00558-9 
Payne, A. F., Storbacka, K. and Frow, P. (2008) Managing the co-creation of value. 
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science. 36(1):83–96. 
Prahalad, C. K. and Ramaswamy, V. (2004) Co-creation experiences: The next 
practice in value creation. Journal of Interactive Marketing. 18(3): 5–14. 
Rashid, A., Farazee M.A., Krajnik P. and Nicolescu C.M. (2013) Resource 
conservative manufacturing: An essential change in business and technology 
paradigm for sustainable manufacturing. Journal of Cleaner Production. 57: 
166–177. 
Ritzén, S. and Ölundh Sandström, G. (2017) Barriers to the Circular Economy - 
Integration of Perspectives and Domains. Procedia CIRP. 64, 7–12. 
Urbinati, A., Chiaroni, D. and Chiesa, V. (2017) Towards a new taxonomy of circular 
economy business models. Journal of Cleaner Production 168: 487-498.  
 
 

 
 
Are we ready for circular business 
models?  
An investigation of firms and consumers’ attitudes 
towards footwear eco-leasing  
 
Laura Piscicelli1,*, Andrea Gambaro1,2 
 
1Copernicus Institute of Sustainable Development, Utrecht 
University, The Netherlands; 2BDO Italy SpA, Italy 
 
*l.piscicelli@uu.nl 
 
 
Extended abstract 
The apparel and footwear industries generated between 5% and 10% of global 
pollution impact in 2016, with the footwear sector alone accounting for 
approximately one-fifth of this impact (Quantis, 2018). The production of 
footwear causes major concerns in relation to water consumption, carbon 
emissions, resource depletion and the disposal of an ever-increasing amount of 
post-consumer (end-of-life) shoe waste (Joy et al., 2012; Lee and Rahimifard, 
2012). Although recycling is generally regarded as the most suitable approach to 
deal with discarded shoes, it is estimated that globally only 5% of the 20 billion 
pairs of shoes that are thrown away each year are to some extent recycled, while 
most of the remaining 95% end up in landfill (Staikos and Rahimifard, 2007). The 
main reason for this is that shoes are often made of multiple materials – such as 
rubber, leather, polymers and textile – whose separation is technically difficult and 
financially unappealing due to the relatively low economic value that can be 
regained through recycling (Lee and Rahimifard, 2012). 
New business models that focus on selling a product’s usage and performance 
instead of the product itself – also referred to as product-service systems (PSS) – 
have been championed as a promising strategy to decouple economic growth and 
material consumption, thereby paving the way for a circular economy (Laumann 

 
 
Kjaer et al., 2018; Romero and Rossi, 2017; Yang et al., 2018). In particular, eco-
leasing – the long-term rental of a product that, once the end of its useful life is 
reached, undergoes a combination of remanufacturing and recycling processes to 
become a source of secondary raw materials for the production of new goods 
(McDonough and Braungart, 2002) – is a PSS-type of business models that could 
help close the loop between post-use waste and footwear production. One of the 
few examples of a subscription-based eco-leasing service for children shoes is 
‘Endless’, developed by Belgian product design studio Edmire (Edmire, 2019); 
whereas Nike has a ‘reuse-a-shoe program’ in place to collect used trainers and 
recycle them to produce new pairs of athletic shoes (Nike, 2019). 
Despite the potential of PSS like eco-leasing to drive the transition to a circular 
economy, their wider implementation and diffusion remains limited (Vezzoli et al., 
2015). While some success stories exist of the application of the product lease 
concept to valuable items such as cars and electronics, the possibility to apply it 
to fast-moving consumer goods like shoes has not drown as much attention yet (Li 
and Xu, 2015; Tukker, 2015). As a result, it is not known to what extent firms in 
the footwear industry are familiar with circular business models based on PSS. 
Moreover, PSS often have low acceptance and adoption rates among both 
companies and consumers (Camacho-Otero et al., 2018; Catulli, 2012; Cherry and 
Pidgeon, 2018; Piscicelli et al., 2015). There is, however, a dearth of research on 
firm and consumer attitudes towards eco-leasing in the context of footwear.  
This study aims to fill these knowledge gaps by answering the research question: 
“How do manufacturers and consumers from the Italian footwear sector perceive 
the opportunity to implement circular business models based on eco-leasing?” We 
combined qualitative and quantitative methods in a mixed methods study 
(Creswell and Plano Clark, 2011) to (i) assess firms’ awareness of the concepts of 
circular economy, PSS and eco-leasing; (ii) uncover the benefits and barriers 
associated to eco-leasing by firms and prospective customers; and (iii) identify the 
personal characteristics and key factors that determine a positive attitude towards 
eco-leasing among end consumers.  
First, 13 in-depth interviews were conducted with professionals of the Italian 
footwear industry working for different shoe manufacturing firms (including 
micro-enterprises, SMEs and multinational companies). The interviews, which 
lasted on average 60-75 minutes, were transcribed and analysed using content 
analysis (Neuendorf, 2017). Second, a survey questionnaire was developed and 
sent (between August and September 2018) to a convenience sample of 

 
 
prospective end consumers of footwear eco-leasing. The questionnaire was filled 
in by 378 respondents and analysed by using graphics analysis and two ordered 
logistic regressions (Winship and Mare, 1984). 
The interview analysis revealed that professionals of the Italian footwear sector 
are somewhat familiar with the concept of circular economy, while only two 
interviewees had previously heard of PSS, and none of the 13 professionals 
interviewed was able to correctly define eco-leasing. The main advantages of 
implementing eco-leasing mentioned by the interviewees were the opportunity to 
establish stronger relationships with business partners and suppliers, establish a 
dynamic organisational culture, and increase customers’ loyalty by distinguishing 
themselves from competitors. The main obstacles identified by the interviewees 
were the difficulty to build and manage supply chain partnerships, the need to 
accurately calculate the environmental impacts of eco-leasing, the development 
of reverse supply chains to manage the return flow of used shoes, the higher 
manufacturing costs and the lack of financial incentives offered by governments.    
From the perspective of the end consumers, the main perceived benefits of eco-
leasing were the possibility to wear footwear made of safe and healthy (recycled) 
materials, make use of the maintenance and repair services offered by shoe 
manufacturers, avoid the accumulation of old footwear in their households, and 
the desire to consume more responsibly and protect the environment. On the 
contrary, respondents raised concerns about paying in instalments and a loss of 
control. Moreover, they felt eco-leasing was not appropriate for them and 
questioned its suitability for everyday clothing and footwear.    
The ordered logistic regressions also allowed us to identify the factors that 
influence consumer attitudes towards eco-leasing. The analysis revealed that male 
and older responders tended to be less interested in eco-leasing; while the 
explanatory variables that were more strongly related to a positive evaluation of 
eco-leasing were ‘self-concept’ (i.e. the wish to take care for the environment and 
being regarded as an innovative, open-minded individual) and ‘emotions’ (i.e. the 
possibility to satisfy a desire for change without feeling guilty about buying a new 
pair of shoes). ‘Self-concept’ was also the strongest predicting variable for a 
negative evaluation of eco-leasing. Finally, respondents who declared to buy more 
pairs of shoes per year were less likely to be interested in eco-leasing. 
The results of this study provide novel insights into the adoption and acceptance 
of circular business models based on eco-leasing by firms and consumers. While 

 
 
PSS appear to be in principle applicable to fast-moving consumer goods like 
footwear, consumers seem to prefer paying for their shoes in a single transaction 
(rather than instalments) and might not consider eco-leasing as a suitable solution 
for them. Furthermore, the barriers identified by Italian shoe manufacturers and 
the little perceived benefits of implementing eco-leasing indicate a still limited 
appetite of the shoe sector for innovative business models for closed-loop 
production systems.  
These findings extend extant knowledge on PSS-based circular business models. 
When the interviewees were asked to reflect upon the potential opportunities 
that Italian shoe manufacturers could seize by implementing eco-leasing, most of 
the potential drivers that were mentioned had already been identified by previous 
studies on PSS. One aspect, namely the opportunity for front-runners to create 
stronger relationships with their key partners, however, has not been highlighted 
by existing literature. Since developing PSS often requires multiple companies to 
work together no matter which type of PSS and industry are considered, the 
opportunity for firms to increase their competitiveness and resilience by relying 
on a ‘community effect’ can be regarded as a first contribution of this study to the 
general knowledge on circular PSS.    
In some cases, the insights collected through the interviews on the potential 
drivers and barriers to eco-leasing from a firm’s perspective were in conflict with 
the findings of previous studies on the implementation of PSS by manufacturing 
companies. While PSS are generally thought to possess a lower intangible value 
compared to traditional goods due to their perceived inconvenience (Tukker, 
2015), most interviewees regarded the high intrinsic value that many end 
consumers could associate to eco-leasing (e.g. an innovative and sustainable 
option) as one of the main opportunities that shoe firms could seize. It is difficult, 
however, to generalise this finding to other types of PSS and product categories 
given that not all goods are regarded by people as suitable as shoes to express 
their identity.  
Finally, while scholars have usually looked at the possibility to collect larger 
volumes of feedback from end consumers as one of the main opportunities that 
front-runners could achieve by implementing PSS (Baines et al., 2017), most 
interviewees regarded processing ever-increasing amounts of data more as a 
hassle than a potential benefit. This finding calls for further research on the 
organisational capabilities required to reap the benefit of big data and harness the 
promises of a data-driven circular economy.  

 
 
Keywords 
Product-service systems (PSS), eco-leasing, footwear, circular economy 
References 
Baines, T., Ziaee Bigdeli, A., Bustinza, O. F., Shi, V. G., Baldwin, J., & Ridgway, K. 
(2017) Servitization: revisiting the state-of-the-art and research priorities. 
International Journal of Operations & Production Management, 37(2), 256-
278. 
Camacho-Otero, J., Boks, C. & Pettersen, I. N. (2017) Consumption in the Circular 
Economy: A Literature Review. Sustainability, 10(8), 2758. 
Catulli, M. (2012) What uncertainty? Further insight into why consumers might be 
distrustful of product service systems. Journal of Manufacturing Technology 
Management, 23(6), 780-793. 
Cherry, C. E. & Pidgeon, N. F. (2018) Why Is Ownership an Issue? Exploring Factors 
That 
Determine 
Public 
Acceptance 
of 
Product-Service 
Systems. 
Sustainability, 10, 2289.  
Creswell, J. W., & Clark, V. L. P. (2017) Designing and conducting mixed methods 
research. London, Sage Publications. 
Edmire 
(2019) 
Endless 
shoes, 
a 
circular 
model. 
Available 
from: 
https://edmire.design/endless [Accessed 16th May 2019]. 
Joy, A., Sherry Jr, J. F., Venkatesh, A., Wang, J., & Chan, R. (2012) Fast fashion, 
sustainability, and the ethical appeal of luxury brands. Fashion Theory, 16(3), 
273-295. 
Laumann Kjaer, L., Pigosso, D. C. A., Niero, M., Bech, N. & McAloone, T. C. (2018) 
Product/Service-Systems for a Circular Economy: The Route to Decoupling 
Economic Growth from Resource Consumption? Journal of Industrial 
Ecology. 
Lee, M. J., & Rahimifard, S. (2012) An air-based automated material recycling 
system for postconsumer footwear products. Resources, Conservation and 
Recycling, 69, 90-99. 
Li, K. J., & Xu, S. H. (2015) The comparison between trade-in and leasing of a 
product with technology innovations. Omega, 54, 134-146. 
McDonough, W. & Braungart, M. (2002) Cradle to cradle: Remaking the way we 
make things. New York, North point press. 
Neuendorf, K. A. (2017) The Content Analysis Guidebook. London, Sage 
Publications. 
Nike (2019) What is Nike’s reuse-a-shoe program? Available from: 
https://www.nike.com/help/a/recycle-shoes [Accessed 16th May 2019]. 

 
 
Piscicelli, L., Cooper, T., & Fisher, T. (2015) The role of values in collaborative 
consumption: Insights from a product-service system for lending and 
borrowing in the UK. Journal of Cleaner Production, 97, 21-29. 
Quantis (2018) Measuring Fashion: Insights from the Environmental Impact of the 
Global Apparel and Footwear Industries study. Available from: 
https://quantis-intl.com/measuring-fashion-report-2018/ [Accessed 30th 
January 2019]. 
Romero, D. & Rossi, M. (2017) Towards circular lean product-service systems. 
Procedia CIRP, 64, 13-18. 
Staikos, T., & Rahimifard, S. (2007) A decision-making model for waste 
management in the footwear industry. International Journal of Production 
Research, 45(18-19), 4403-4422. 
Tukker, A. (2015) Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy –
a review. Journal of Cleaner Production, 97, 76-91. 
Vezzoli, C., Ceschin, F., Diehl, J. C., & Kohtala, C. (2015) New design challenges to 
widely implement ‘Sustainable Product Service Systems’. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 97, 1-12. 
Winship, C., & Mare, R. D. (1984) Regression models with ordinal variables. 
American Sociological Review, 49(4), 512-525. 
Yang, M., Smart, P., Kumar, M., Jolly, M. & Evans, S. (2018) Product-service 
systems business models for circular supply chains. Production Planning & 
Control, 29(6), 498-508. 

 
 
Circular business model 
experimentation: Exploring metrics 
 
Jan Konietzko, Nancy Bocken, Erik Jan Hultink 
Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands 
Abstract 
Circular business model experimentation continuously tests new business model 
ideas that can narrow, slow, close and regenerate energy and resource loops. An 
experiment requires defining a metric, or indicator, that can be used to measure 
progress towards circularity. While it is clear that ‘circularity checks’ are needed 
during experimentation, it is not yet clear what metrics can be used for these 
checks, and how they can become part of the experimentation process. We 
therefore investigate how firms can measure progress towards circularity during 
circular business model experimentation. As a first step, we develop an initial set 
of possible metrics from the literature. In a second step, we apply and test this set 
through action research in several experimentation workshops with circular 
economy oriented projects, both in startups and incumbents. The results and 
insights from these workshops will be presented and discussed during the NBM 
conference. 
Keywords 
circular economy, business model experimentation, lean startup, lean analytics 
 
 

 
 
Circular business models in social 
housing associations: Bridging 
ecological goals and social contexts 
 
Manon Eikelenboom, Thomas Long, Gjalt de Jong 
University of Groningen, The Netherlands 
Abstract 
In order to address the lack of attention to the social dimension of circular business 
models, this paper focusses on these models in the context of a social housing 
association. Due to their dominant social mission and strong ties with local 
communities, housing associations need to consider the social dimension of 
sustainability within circular business models. The first objective of this paper is to 
investigate the circular business models that can be adopted by housing 
associations and to categorize them in a set of archetypes. This paper recognizes 
that circular business models are not isolated but situated in networks in which 
linkages with communities may be highly important for housing associations. The 
second objective is therefore to investigate the important characteristics of 
linkages with communities within the networks in which the circular business 
models of housing associations are situated. Through an in-depth case study 
involving a grey literature investigation, 2 focus groups and 15 interviews, we 
found that circular business models in housing associations are likely to be 
decoupled from their social activities. The results highlighted that two-way 
linkages with communities may avoid decoupling and potentially lead to the 
emergence of a new set of socially inclusive circular business models. 
Keywords 
circular business model strategies, social context, social network  
 

 
 
Circular Economy in the Agricultural 
Sector  
Farm based biogas production as a way forward 
 
M. Mattsson, N. Karlsson, A. Hansson,  
M. Hoveskog, F. Halila 
 
1 School of Business, Engineering and Science,  
Halmstad University, Sweden 
 
Extended abstract 
 
There is a need for a transition towards a more circular economy in our society. 
Transitioning to a circular economy represents a systemic shift that builds long-
term resilience, generates business and economic opportunities, and provides 
environmental and societal benefits (Ellen Macarthur Foundation, 2019). 
However, the circular economy requires firms to rethink their business models. 
Agricultural businesses have the potential to implement a transition through the 
development of new sustainable business models including waste handling and 
energy production. Implementing sustainable business models to support 
transitioning to circular economy by any sector including the agricultural sector is 
challenging. Björklund (2018) found two major groups of barriers (internal and 
external) when it comes to implementing sustainable business models in the 
agricultural sector. The external barriers that the study found were resistance or 
lack of support from actor(s); unsupportive government; and business culture in 
Swedish agriculture while the internal barriers were restrictive mindset with fear 
and/or resistance of innovations within the firm; lack of competences about 
strategic management, leadership and marketing; insufficient resources. 
However, to our knowledge, no research has done a more in-depth empirical study 
into the context of the renewable energy in the form of biogas which can be 
produced on agricultural farms from manure and harvest residues at the same 
time as a high quality biofertilizer is produced. Therefore, the purpose of this study 
is to identify barriers and drivers important for the transition towards a circular 
economy in the context of agricultural businesses and producers of biogas. 

 
 
Another purpose of this study is to explore how different stakeholders could 
promote this transition in their different roles.  
Research has pointed out the crucial role of business model innovation for 
sustainability for achieving a circular economy (e.g. Lüdeke‐Freund et al., 2019). 
At the same time the research and understanding of circular business models is 
still limited (De Angelis, 2016). A study based on a questionnaire to Swedish farm 
biogas managers concluded that biogas production could be an important catalyst 
for improving, integrating and diffusing sustainability (Karlsson, 2019).Therefore, 
it is important to understand what effects for both farmers and municipalities can 
be achieved through business model innovation towards the transition to circular 
solutions.  
To conduct the research, a case-study approach is used within an ongoing project 
at Halmstad University. The case is a farmer cooperative, Vessige biogas Economic 
Association working with farm-based biogas production and the municipality in 
which the cooperative is situated, Falkenberg municipality which is also involved. 
The project will investigate what motivations and obstacles there are for 
developing the circular business models and what policy evolution and behavioral 
change could possibly drive a positive development of biogas production in the 
agricultural sector. 
Sweden has increased biogas production during recent years and a large share of 
the biogas produced is upgraded and used as vehicle fuel (International gas union, 
2015). By using the digestate as organic fertiliser, a farmer is able to eliminate or 
significantly reduce the use of synthetic fertilisers that constantly increase in price 
(Hellström et al., 2015). Biogas closes the cycle and creates a circular economy 
where waste and residual resources become valuable resources, such as climate 
friendly biogas, biomethane and biofertilizer (Swedish Gas Association, 2019).  It 
has been shown that biogas solutions can contribute to all of the 17 UN 
Sustainable Development Goals which indicates that biogas solutions need to be 
studied and understood in a broad, cross-sectoral system perspective (Hagman 
and Eklund, 2016). 
 In spite of the fact that many benefits can be gained from farm-based biogas 
production (renewable fuel, high-quality fertiliser, reduced greenhouse gas 
emissions and rural development) and that the biogas industry is a perfect 
example of a circular economy (Hagman and Eklund, 2016), Swedish farm-based 
biogas production have been struggling with low profitability and the 

 
 
development has reached a status quo. Vessige biogas Economic Association is a 
cooperative of farmers who want to develop their farming activities (current BM) 
by developing new business concepts aimed at future biogas expansion. The 
cooperative has been extensively studied in their early phases of business model 
innovation (Karlsson et al., 2018 a and b) and also in an education for sustainable 
development context (Hoveskog et al., 2018).  
This research have through participatory workshops with farmers, consultants, 
students and researchers suggested a number of ideas and prototypes for new 
business models (BM). A network-level BM with a strong focus on stakeholder 
collaboration was suggested for addressing also environmental aspects along with 
the profitability aspects (Karlsson et al 2018b). A network-level BM may consist of 
a group of upstream suppliers (e.g., technical equipment and biological feedstock 
suppliers), downstream suppliers (e.g., biogas and digestate distributors and 
retailers), and customers (e.g., municipalities and manufacturing industries) 
(Huttunen et al. 2014). Competitive advantage and sustainable value creation in 
biogas production can thus be achieved in the cooperative.  
The situation have now changed for the Vessige cooperative and thanks to a 
governmental support system (Klimatklivet) distributed via the Swedish EPA the 
cooperative can now realize a large investment and start the development 
towards new sustainable BMs. Falkenberg municipality also have an interest in this 
realization since it will create business opportunities, facilitate the fulfillment of 
climate goals and contribute to rural development in the municipality. Therefor 
the current research focus on readiness for transition, stakeholder involvement 
and implementation of circular business models in this new situation. The results 
will provide insights into how production and market for biogas and biofertiliser 
can be sustainably secured as well as which standards, control means and 
legislation promotes the circular solutions. New knowledge is gathered for 
increasing the agricultural companies readiness for developing and implementing 
circular business models. Profitable circular business models and initiatives will 
inspire others and will be copied and expanded both nationally and 
internationally. 
The data collection will be done via interviews with stakeholders both within the 
Vessige cooperative and outside. Suppliers of substrate for the biogas production 
and customers for biogas and biofertiliser will be addressed and involved in 
participatory activities. Also municipality officials and policy makers will be 
interviewed. Data from interviews will be also complemented with other types of 

 
 
information from articles, reports and policy documents. The expected results are 
to identify obstacles and drivers which are most perceived as important for the 
transition towards a circular economy in agricultural businesses and how different 
stakeholders could promote the transition in their different roles. This research 
would contribute to the literature of circular and sustainable business models in 
the context of the agricultural sector and more specific biogas production. 
References 
 
Björklund, J. C. (2018). Barriers to sustainable business model innovation in 
Swedish agriculture. Journal of Entrepreneurship, Management and 
Innovation, 14(1), 65-90. 
De Angelis, R. (2016). A conceptualisation of circular business models and 
explanation of their adoption: Evidence from four in-depth case studies. 
Ph.D. thesis, Exeter, UK: University of Exeter. 
Ellen Macarthur Foundation (2019) Circular economy. Retrieved via: 
https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/circular-economy/concept 
[Accessed 14th May 2019] 
Hagman and Eklund (2016) The role of biogas solutions in the circular and 
biobased economy. Report from Biogas research center.  
Hellström, 
M. 
Tsvetkova, 
A. 
Gustafsson, 
M. 
Wikström, 
K. 
(2015) 
Collaborationmechanisms for business models in distributed energy 
ecosystems. J. Clean. Prod. 102, 226-236. 
Hoveskog, M. Halila, F. Mattsson, M. Upward, A. Karlsson, N. (2018) Education for 
Sustainable Development: Business modelling for flourishing. J. Clean. Prod. 
172:4383-4396  
Huttunen, S. Manninen, K. Leskinen, P. (2014) Combining biogas LCA reviews with 
stakeholder interviews to analyse life cycle impacts at a practical level. J. 
Clean. Prod. 80:5-16. 
International Gas Union (2015) Biogas – from refuse to energy. Report from 
International Gas Union. www.igu.org [Accessed 14th May 2019] 
Karlsson, N. Hoveskog, M. Halila, F. Mattsson, M. (2018a) Early Phases of the 
Business Model Innovation Process for Sustainability : Addressing the Status 
Quo of a Swedish Biogas-Producing Farm Cooperative. J. Clean. Prod. 
172:2759-2772  
Karlsson, N. Hoveskog, M. Halila, F. Mattsson, M. (2018b) Business modelling in 
farm-based biogas production : towards network-level business models and 
stakeholder business cases for sustainability. Sustainability Science 
doi.org/10.1007/s11625-0584-z 

 
 
Karlsson, NPE. (2019) Business models and business cases for financial 
sustainability: Insights on corporate sustainability in the Swedish farm-based 
biogas industry. Sustainable Production and consumption 18, 115-129. 
Lüdeke‐Freund, F., Gold, S., & Bocken, N. M. (2019). A review and typology of 
circular economy business model patterns. Journal of Industrial Ecology, 
23(1), 36-61. 
Swedish gas association (2019) Retrieved via: https://www.energigas.se/in-
english/ [Accessed 14th May 2019] 
 

 
 
Circular economy, organizations, and 
business models: a literature review 
 
Renato Chaves1*, Emmanuel Raufflet2 
1HEC Montréal, Canada; 2HEC Montréal, Canada 
 
*renato.chaves@hec.ca 
 
Abstract  
This paper examines the concept, the assumptions, and practices related to 
circular economy from an organizational and managerial perspective. While 
circularity is advocated as a solution to sustainability-related issues, organizational 
and management scholarship remains marginal in research. This systematic 
literature review assesses how the concept has translated so far into 
organizational strategies, business models, and practice. An agenda for research 
is proposed.  
Keywords 
Circular Economy, Management, Business Models, Literature Review. 
Introduction  
The notion of a circular economy has been gaining traction in recent years 
(Bocken, Olivetti, Cullen, Potting, & Lifset, 2017; Esposito, Tse, & Soufani, 2018; 
International Reference Centre for the Life Cycle of Products, Processes and 
Services (CIRAIG), 2015; Merli, Preziosi, & Acampora, 2018). Supported among 
others by the Ellen McArthur Foundation and the McKinsey Global Institute, this 
concept brings environmental concerns to the fore and is advocated as a viable 
solution to sustainability-related issues, such as the accelerated use of limited 
natural resources (Esposito, Tse, & Soufani, 2018). From an organizational 
perspective, this holistic concept is an evolution of systems thinking, although it is 
not too often conceptualized from a systems perspective (Kirchherr, Reike, & 
Hekkert, 2017). The circular economy model is opposed to a linear model of mass 

 
 
production and mass consumption, and is promoted as it could offer a wide array 
of opportunities and challenges for organizations. However, research on how the 
concept translates into organizational strategies, business models, and practice is 
still limited. 
Circular economy’s several definitions are derived from associated concepts, such 
as sustainable development, ecological transition, green economy, functional 
economy, life-cycle thinking, cradle-to-cradle thinking, shared value, industrial 
ecology, extended producer responsibility, and ecodesign (CIRAIG, 2015). These 
associated concepts, with varying degrees of comprehensiveness, are often 
related to interdisciplinary environmental sustainability research and, to a much 
lesser extent, corporate social responsibility. As a result, organizational and 
management scholarship as a whole do not seem to have incorporated it into a 
comprehensive research agenda. 
Despite the interdisciplinary character of the concept of circular economy, 
organizational and management scholarship have plenty to contribute to the 
theoretical and practical development of the concept, in areas as broad as 
corporate social responsibility and strategy and in more specialized areas, such as 
entrepreneurship, project management, and consumer behavior. This research 
attempts to give a meaningful contribution in that direction. By systematically 
reviewing literature on circular economy from 2010 to 2018, this research 
examines how the concept of circular economy has translated into organizational 
strategies, business models, and practice and the roles played by organizations in 
its implementation. Moreover, we examine how opportunities and challenges are 
addressed in the implementation of circular strategies and business models. Then 
we discuss how organizational and management scholarship can contribute to 
advancing knowledge about the circular economy concept and its organizational, 
managerial, and policy implications. The paper concludes with a proposed agenda 
for research. 
 
 

 
 
Conducting a literature review: research methods 
In order to assess the circular economy concept and how it translates into 
organizational strategies, business models, and practice, we conducted a 
systematic literature review. A systematic literature review allows us to determine 
what we currently know and do not know about a particular topic. It allows the 
researcher to draw evidence-based conclusions about the topic in question, since 
it applies the same level of rigor that would be applied to any well-conducted and 
clearly-reported primary research (Tranfield, Denyer, & Smart, 2003; Briner & 
Denyer, 2010). Indeed, it “addresses a specific question, [and] utilizes explicit and 
transparent methods to perform a thorough literature search and critical appraisal 
of individual studies” (Briner & Denyer, 2010, p. 329). 
This literature review was conducted in five stages. In the first stage we identified 
the review questions. We started from a broad question – how does the circular 
economy concept translate into organizational strategies, business models, and 
practice? – and then narrowed it down to the following questions: (i) What is a 
circular economy? (ii) What are the roles played by business organizations in a 
circular economy? (iii) How is it understood in business organizations? (iv) How do 
business organizations implement circular strategies? (v) What are the 
opportunities and challenges for the implementation of these strategies? (vi) How 
do organizations create and/or adapt their business models so as to implement 
circular strategies? (vii) How can traditional business models evolve towards 
circular business models? 
The second stage consisted in the journal selection. Since this literature review 
concerns organizational and management research, we first selected the top 
journals in these fields, featured in the Financial Times top 50 journals used in 
business school research rankings. However, the notion of a circular economy 
stems from different concepts and from different disciplines. As a result, the 
literature on circular economy is scattered through several research fields. In 
order to overcome this challenge, we selected interdisciplinary journals that, 
albeit not specifically concerned with organizations and management, do present 
peer-reviewed research in these fields, such as the Journal of Cleaner Production. 
Fourteen additional journals were selected according to this criterion. The 64 
selected journals are listed in Figure 1. 
 

 
 
[INSERT FIGURE 1 ABOUT HERE] 
 
The third stage consisted in the comprehensive search in the ABI/INFORM 
Collection and EBSCO Academic Search Complete databases. We also searched 
Science Direct only for research published in the journals Ecological Economics, 
Environmental Development, Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering, 
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, Resources, Conservation and 
Recycling, and Sustainability. In addition to the expression “circular economy”, we 
used the following associated concepts as keywords: (1) blue economy, (2) 
collaborative economy, (3) donating, (4) frugal innovation, (5) functionality, (6) 
maintenance and repair, (7) reselling, (8) responsible finance, and (9) sharing 
economy.  We found a total of 750 studies where these 10 keywords were 
mentioned in titles and/or abstracts. 
The fourth stage of the literature review consisted in establishing sample selection 
criteria and evaluating the quality of the studies in the pool. After locating and 
selecting a sample of 89 relevant studies, we critically appraised the selected 
studies according to three criteria: (1) the theoretical and practical importance of 
the research; (2) the clarity and coherence of the study report; and (3) the extent 
to which methods were appropriate and rigorous. Then the results were 
categorized according to the papers’ main focus. The first category – 
conceptualization – groups research pertaining to the questions What is a circular 
economy? What are the roles played by business organizations in a circular 
economy? and How is it understood in business organizations? In this category we 
selected a total of 22 published studies.  
The drivers, enablers, and strategy implementation category groups 48 studies on 
topics related to the questions How do business organizations implement circular 
strategies? and What are the opportunities and challenges for the implementation 
of these strategies? The third and final category – business models – concerns 
research pertaining to the questions How do organizations create and/or adapt 
their business models so as to implement circular strategies? and How can 
traditional business models evolve towards circular business models? This category 
provided our initial set with 19 studies. The 89 selected papers and the respective 
journals where they were published are listed in Figure 2. 

 
 
 [INSERT FIGURE 2 ABOUT HERE] 
 
In the fifth and final stage of the literature review we analyzed and synthesized 
the findings from the papers, as we discuss in the following sections. We did not 
add any categories to the ones discussed in the previous paragraphs. That is, the 
selected studies are discussed hereinafter according to their contribution to 
advancing the circular economy concept, assessing drivers and enablers of a 
circular economy, evaluating the implementation of circular strategies, and 
developing circular business models. 
Mapping definitions and practices of the circular economy 
Defining circular economy 
A first area of research concerns the definition of the concept. The circular 
economy concept first gained momentum in China in the 1990’s, motivated by the 
national need to maintain a high pace of economic growth in a context of natural 
resources limitations. However, there is no clear evidence of where it originated 
(Winans, Kendall, & Deng, 2017). In recent years, mostly supported by the Ellen 
McArthur Foundation and the McKinsey Global Institute, the notion of a circular 
economy has been gaining traction worldwide as a viable solution to 
sustainability-related issues (Bocken, Olivetti, Cullen, Potting, & Lifset, 2017; 
Esposito, Tse, & Soufani, 2018; International Reference Centre for the Life Cycle of 
Products, Processes and Services (CIRAIG), 2015; Merli, Preziosi, & Acampora, 
2018). Indeed, the circular economy concept is particularly interesting because it 
encompasses ways for businesses to implement the concept of sustainable 
development (Kirchherr, Reike, & Hekkert, 2017). 
Circular economy has been defined in several scholarly studies as well as in policy 
and practitioner reports, but there is no single agreed upon definition of the 
concept. Most frequently, circular economy definitions comprise a combination of 
reduce, reuse and recycle activities. Nonetheless, these definitions often come 
short of emphasizing that the implementation of the concept requires a systemic 
shift (Kirchherr, Reike, & Hekkert, 2017). The Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2013, 
p. 7) provides the most common definition, according to which circular economy 
is “an industrial system that is restorative or regenerative by intention and design. 
It replaces the ‘end-of-life’ concept with restoration, shifts towards the use of 

 
 
renewable energy, eliminates the use of toxic chemicals, which impair reuse, and 
aims for the elimination of waste through the superior design of materials, 
products, systems, and, within this, business models”. In their review of 114 
definitions of the circular economy concept, Kirchherr and colleagues (2017, pp. 
224-225) comprehensively define it as “an economic system that is based on 
business models which replace the ‘end-of-life’ concept with reducing, alternatively 
reusing, recycling and recovering materials in production/distribution and 
consumption processes, thus operating at the micro level (products, companies, 
consumers), meso level (eco-industrial parks) and macro level (city, region, nation 
and beyond), with the aim to accomplish sustainable development, which implies 
creating environmental quality, economic prosperity and social equity, to the 
benefit of current and future generations”. 
Kirchherr and colleagues’ (2017) definition is favored in this study because it 
integrates the key factors that distinguish the notion of circular economy from 
other sustainability-related concepts. First, their definition not only implies a 
systems perspective; by addressing simultaneous actions at the micro, meso, and 
macro levels, they underscore the holistic  and inter-level of action and change 
that the circular economy requires. Second, it explicitly addresses the four 4R 
framework components – reduce, reuse, recycle, and recover (this final ‘R’ 
representing an expansion of the more common ‘3Rs’ and meaning material 
recovery), thus reinforcing the core principles of the circular economy as opposed 
to the ‘take-make-waste’ linear economy thinking. Third, this definition clearly 
places all participants in a value chain, suppliers, producers, and consumers as 
pillars and key enablers of the circular economy. Fourth, according to this 
definition, circular economy goes beyond economic prosperity and environmental 
quality; it aims to bring social equity to the fore, thus addressing a major gap in 
the circular economy literature (Merli, Preziosi, & Acampora, 2018; Moreau, 
Sahakian, Griethuysen, & Vuille, 2017; Murray, Skene, & Haynes, 2017; Sauvé, 
Bernard, & Sloan, 2016).1  
As expected from a new stream of research, the concept of circular economy 
features characteristics of a socially-constructed umbrella concept, that is, a 
comprehensive concept under which a number of other concepts coming from 
different epistemological fields meet, such as sustainable development, functional 
or performance economy, life-cycle thinking, industrial ecology, and shared value 
                                                 
1 What Kirchherr and colleagues (2017) call micro, meso, and macro levels should not be confused 
with the micro, meso, and macro levels of analysis in organizational and management studies, 
which respectively refer to individuals, groups, and organizations. 

 
 
(CIRAIG, 2015; Homrich, Galvão, Abadia, & Carvalho, 2018). This integration of 
previous concepts under an umbrella concept is arguably where the circular 
economy “can and should make its greatest contribution” (Bocken, Olivetti, 
Cullen, Potting, & Lifset, 2017, p. 477). Indeed, by integrating various resource 
strategies, the circular economy concept “offers a new framing of these strategies 
by drawing attention to their capacity of prolonging resource use as well as to the 
relationship between these strategies” (Blomsma & Brennan, 2017, p. 603). 
Drawing on Gallie (1956), Korhonen, Nuur, Feldmann, and Birkie (2018, p. 545) 
argue that circular economy has already become an essentially contested concept, 
since “there is agreement on the means and goals of [the] concept but 
disagreements on how to define it, which units of analyses to use to capture the 
dynamism, what the conceptual cornerstones are and what methodology of 
enquiry is appropriate”. According to them, circular economy is a cluster concept 
comprising groups of subconcepts. Furthermore, they argue, the circular economy 
concept fits Gallie’s (1956) seven criteria, namely: (i) potential value in the concept 
(since all societal sectors are interested in circular economy), (ii) internal 
complexity (since there are numerous arguments in favor of and against circular 
economy), (iii) various describability (since the concept’s several descriptions and 
arguments for what features should be prioritized mirror different interests and 
preferences, (iv) openness (meaning that knowledge on human impact on the 
natural environment is continuously evolving), (v) aggressive and defensive use 
(that is, how rapidly circular economy has drawn worldwide attention despite little 
of scientific research on the concept), (vi) original exemplar (meaning that users 
of the concept often refer to an authority on the subject; in this case, Kenneth 
Boulding’s 
“spaceship 
earth” 
(1966), 
Georgescu-Roegen’s 
book 
on 
thermodynamics in economic systems (1971), and Frosch and Gallopoulos (1989) 
“Strategies for Manufacturing”), and (vii) progressive competition (meaning that 
the original exemplars’ work is sustained notwithstanding the distinct emerging 
definitions and applications of the circular economy concept) (Korhonen, Nuur, 
Feldmann, & Birkie, 2018). 
The circular economy concept holds the promise of a paradigm shift. However, a 
thorough paradigm shift only occurs when the new paradigm is embedded in 
everyday life (Korhonen, Nuur, Feldmann, & Birkie, 2018), which does not seem to 
be the case. So as to assess whether circular economy is a new sustainability 
paradigm, Geissdoerfer and colleagues (2017) examined the main conceptual 
similarities and differences between sustainability and circular economy. The 
similarities include intra and intergenerational commitments motivated by 

 
 
environmental hazards, increasing agency for the multiple and coexisting 
pathways of development, an essentially global perspective, and the adoption of 
multi-/interdisciplinary research approaches in order to integrate non-economic 
aspects into development (having system design and innovation at the core). 
Furthermore, the authors list among the similarities potential costs and risks, the 
need for diversification so as to take advantage of value creation opportunities, 
the necessary cooperation of different stakeholders, often implemented via 
regulation and incentives, and the frequent problems to implement technological 
solutions. Private businesses are assigned “a central role among relevant 
stakeholders because it commands more capabilities and resources than any other 
actor” (Geissdoerfer, Savaget, Bocken, & Hultink, 2017, p. 764) and business 
model innovation is perceived as a key enabler of industry transformation. 
The differences refer to aspects such as origins of the term, goals, main 
motivation, what system is prioritized and to whose benefit, timeframe of 
changes, perceptions of responsibilities, and interests behind the use of the term. 
The final two aspects are particularly interesting for this literature review, since 
both have direct or indirect implications to businesses and other organizations. 
While in sustainability responsibilities are shared, though not clearly defined, in 
the circular economy both institutional actors (regulators and policymakers) and 
private businesses play a key role. As far as interests behind the use of the term 
are concerned, sustainability refers to an aligned interest between stakeholders. 
In turn, the use of circular economy is motivated by economic advantages for 
businesses and less resource consumption and pollution for the environment 
(Geissdoerfer, Savaget, Bocken, & Hultink, 2017). 
Reviewing some limitations and challenges of the circular economy concept 
Several critiques of the concept have been identified. The first one concerns its 
vagueness. Despite the rapid attention it has been gaining in recent years, 
Korhonen, Honkasalo, and Seppälä (2018, p. 37) argue that “the scientific and 
research content of the [circular economy] concept is superficial and unorganized” 
and that it “seems to be a collection of vague and separate ideas from several 
fields and semi-scientific concepts”. Although promising, especially for the 
attention that circular economy has recently raised among scholars, businesses, 
and policy-makers, the concept has limitations and challenges that need to be 
addressed. Korhonen, Honkasalo, and Seppälä (2018) refer to thermodynamic 
limits, system boundary limits, limits posed by physical scale of the economy, 
limits posed by path-dependency and lock-in, limits of governance and 

 
 
management – for instance, “intra-organizational and intra-sectoral management 
of inter-organizational and inter-sectoral physical flows of materials and energy” 
(2018, p. 41) – and limits of social and cultural definitions. 
The second set of critiques concerns its relation to the growth-dependent  
economic model. Skene (2018) provides a critique of key subconcepts that 
underpin the circular economy. The first issue regards the definitions of waste, 
which miss energetic waste. Another issue refers to how the circular economy is 
based on the idea of a closed-loop system in perfect equilibrium, as if it was 
mirroring the natural world. However, the author stresses that nature 
continuously changes and “because of the countless interactions and pervading 
laws of thermodynamics, we cannot hope to restore an equilibrium state” (p. 482). 
Furthermore, he criticizes the assumption according to which economic growth is 
decoupled from virgin resource consumption (CIRAIG, 2015; Esposito, Tse, & 
Soufani, 2018; Murray, Skene, & Haynes, 2017). The problem, Skene (2018) 
argues, is that the circular economy relies on an economic model supported by 
the same neoclassical economic principles of globalization, which inherently 
requires growth. 
The third critique focuses on its practical impacts. Skene (2018) also critiques the 
idea of extended lifetimes. A practical challenge in this regard would be the idea 
of product as service, since environmental benefits are not guaranteed, services 
generate significant environmental and financial costs (e.g., transport for servicing 
professionals, replacement parts, longer-lasting materials, and global service 
support centers). Also, research on consumption with ownership versus 
consumption without ownership indicates that there are significant sociocultural 
barriers for cases where identifying with a brand community is important (Bocken, 
Olivetti, Cullen, Potting, & Lifset, 2017). Moreover, Skene (2018, p. 484) argues 
that “manufacturing rarely occurs in the same locality as sales, recycling and 
servicing, meaning that any benefits are likely to be externalized”. Another central 
assumption of circular economy thinking disputed by Skene (2018) concerns eco-
efficiency. According to this principle, nature is very efficient and greater 
sustainability would result from increased efficiency. Nonetheless, eco-efficiency 
stands in stark contrast to modern ecological knowledge, since the biosphere’s 
many sub-systems operate sub-optimally for the overall functioning of the system. 
A fouth set of critiques focus on its limited relation with equity and justice. Moreau 
and colleagues (2017, p. 497) argue the circular economy concept “lacks the social 
and institutional dimensions to address the current material and energy 

 
 
throughput in the economy”, without which the necessary societal transitions to 
a circular economy would not occur. From an institutional perspective, institutions 
play a key role in distributing costs among economic agents, rather than 
transferring them onto the environment. From a social stance, the authors 
propose the adoption of social and solidarity economy principles. The social and 
solidarity economy is a social movement and existing practice, which includes 
different types of economic initiatives, such as new social relations and new 
currencies. These principles place people above profit and work “at the local or 
regional level, bringing together cooperative efforts and promoting democratic 
participation in economic activities” (Moreau, Sahakian, Griethuysen, & Vuille, 
2017, p. 503). In this regard, these principles’ major contributions to the circular 
economy would pertain to equity, thus “avoiding cost shifting in time and place, 
and models of collaborative and democratic governance systems, which challenge 
the profit motive” (op. cit.), supported by evolving institutional conditions. 
Implementing circular strategies 
The literature has examined the implementation of circular strategies in several 
levels. Circular economy strategy implementation requires efforts at the micro, 
meso, and macro level. At the micro level, Su and colleagues (2013) refer to 
cleaner production methods and ecodesign. At the meso level, the authors 
mention practices such as developing eco-industrial parks as well as a waste 
trading system. At the macro level, which they relate to a city or regional scale, Su 
and colleagues (2013, p. 217) refer to “more complex and extensive co-operative 
networks between industries and industrial parks from primary, secondary and 
tertiary sectors”. 
A significant part of research has focused on the implementation of a circular 
economy policy in China. Research indicates significant achievements and a 
promising future. However, challenges for successful implementation include 
“lack of reliable information, shortage of advanced technology, weak economic 
incentives, poor enforcement ability of legislation, poor leadership and 
management, lack of public awareness, and lack of a standard system for 
performance assessment” (Su, Heshmati, Geng, & Yu, 2013, p. 222). Furthermore, 
the Chinese experience in the development of eco-industrial parks indicates that 
key challenges refer to facilitating cooperation between firms along the value 
chain, therefore turning outputs into inputs to such an extent that a linear 
production system may be converted into a circular system (Mathews, Tan, & Hu, 
2018). Indeed, while the development of circular supply chains within regional 

 
 
industrial parks may be perceived as an advantage of Chinese policy in comparison 
with OECD countries, the main concern in China lies in “building effective network 
governance processes as circular resource flows are being created” (Mathews, 
Tan, & Hu, 2018, p. 176) in the country. 
An additional barrier to promoting the development of eco-industrial parks refers 
to cooperation in developing technological solutions for them. Despite the fact 
that a number of businesses develop technologies according to their respective 
internal capabilities, the successful transition from industrial park to eco-industrial 
park calls for policies encouraging the development of technologies related to 
substitution, reuse, or recycling of raw materials, as well as energy and by-
products. While the topic still deserves further research, how to encourage 
technological cooperation among businesses and industrial parks might benefit 
from a common platform for information sharing and communication among 
industrial parks (Zhu, Geng, Sarkis, & Lai, 2014). 
A second research area concerns the assessment of the potential contribution of 
technological development to a circular economy beyond industrial parks. In this 
line, Garmulewicz and colleagues (2018) evaluate how a circular economy could 
benefit from three-dimensional (3D) printing by disrupting the existing materials 
value chain. While the authors conclude that 3D printing can be an enabler of a 
circular economy, a few obstacles should be considered. First, technological 
barriers include “the functional quality of 3D printed products, their high cost, and, 
in turn, the limited consumer demand for such recycled products” (Garmulewicz, 
Holweg, Veldhuis, & Yang, 2018, p. 122). Second, the main economic barriers refer 
to the demand for 3D printed products and to the cost of 3D printed in comparison 
with conventional products. Third, organizational barriers regard the availability 
of open data and hardware for knowledge and information sharing among 
different organizations. Finally, legislation and social obstacles might be overcome 
through regulatory incentives, since they are associated with the acceptance of 
recycled over virgin materials (Garmulewicz, Holweg, Veldhuis, & Yang, 2018). 
A third research area focuses on the challenges to the implementation of circular 
strategies include the assessment of Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) 
regulations. EPR has been partially effective in implementing some aspects of 
circular economy. However, research indicates that there is still need for 
effectively enforced “harmonized recycling standards for all recycling activities, 
whether financed under EPR or not” (Kunz, Mayers, & Wassenhove, 2018, p. 64). 
Taking into consideration that EPR has fallen short of encouraging manufacturers 

 
 
to change their products’ designs for easier recycling, Kunz et al. (2018) argue that 
EPR might benefit from differentiation of recycling costs. That is, rewarding 
producers for designs that enable easy and cheap recovery of material would lead 
to higher recovery of material from waste. 
A fourth research area concerns circularity in value chains. Two empirical studies 
in Australia evaluate the implementation of circular strategies. The first one 
regards the Australian agri-food industry. Following the principles of industrial 
ecology, Pagotto and Halog (2015) offer a number of recommendations for policy 
makers. Firstly, they recommend the implementation of a sustainable resource 
management (SRM) for the entire Australian agri-food industry chain, meaning an 
integrated approach “that manages materials/resource life cycles aiming to 
achieve economic efficiency and environmental sustainability” (Pagotto & Halog, 
2015, p. 1183). The implementation of an SRM would allow for the identification 
of inefficiencies in the production processes, “reducing production and waste 
management costs, increasing competitiveness and improving the producers’ 
public image, once their products are produced in a sustainable way” (op. cit.). 
Moreover, Pagotto and Halog (2015) argue that the implementation of “integrated 
waste management, energy, and fertilizer production in large centralized 
(regional) units or smaller decentralized local units” (Pagotto & Halog, 2015, p. 
1184) would help reduce the reliance of non-renewable energy in this particular 
industry, especially in subsectors concerned with food processing and dairy and 
meat products. With regard to bioenergy production, the authors suggest 
governmental incentives for the construction of biorefineries. 
Another empirical study examines the role of the mining industry in a circular 
economy. Based on the case of Mount Morgan mine, in Australia, Lèbre and 
colleagues (2017) argue that processing mining waste is not sufficient to 
guarantee a desirable environmental outcome. Indeed, by coupling mineral 
extraction and acid mine drainage mitigation in a proactive way, a mining company 
might leave the mine site in a better condition, since it would incorporate 
environmental rehabilitation into the mining project’s design. As for 
implementation tools, Kalmykova, Sadagopan, and Rosado (2018) propose a 
Circular Economy Strategies Database, including 45 strategies to be applied to 
different parts of the value chain. The second is a Circular Economy 
Implementation Database, including over 100 case studies of 35 of those 45 
strategies. These are classified by scope (i.e., substance, material, product, sector, 
or system), strategy name, number, and part of the value chain, and 

 
 
implementation 
level 
(meaning 
policy/planning/vision, 
research 
and 
development, knowledge and experience transfer, pilot scale, and market ready). 
A fifth research area concerns industrial eco-parks and their evaluation. It is 
argued that the successful implementation of circular economy-related initiatives 
requires sound indicators for their evaluation. According to Su, Heshmati, Geng, 
and Yu (2013), these indicators are firm-specific. Therefore, a unified, 
standardized set of indicators might fail to capture the actual level of 
implementation of circular economy initiatives. At the meso level, China has 
developed different sets of indicators to evaluate the overall eco-efficiency of 
industrial parks. Different Chinese governmental agencies have different 
concerns. Therefore, the indicators implemented by these agencies cover distinct 
sets of dimensions. On the one hand, resource output rate, resource consumption 
rate, integrated resource utilization, and reduction rate in waste discharge. On the 
other, material reducing and recycling, economic development, pollution control 
and administration and management perspectives. At the macro level, indicators 
have yet to be developed, especially those that go beyond economic and 
environmental aspects and also comprise a social dimension (Zhu, Geng, Sarkis, & 
Lai, 2014). 
Developing research on circular business models 
Research has focused of the definition, and forms of circular business models. 
Nußholz (2017) proposes a new definition of a circular business model. Drawing 
on the resource efficiency and business model innovation perspectives, she 
defines a circular business model as “how a company creates, captures, and 
delivers value with the value creation logic designed to improve resource efficiency 
through contributing to extending useful life of products and parts (e.g., through 
long-life design, repair and remanufacturing) and closing material loops” (p. 12). 
The proposed definition attempts to clarify which resource efficiency strategies 
can be considered critical strategies for circular business models. Furthermore, it 
takes into consideration that product and material loops are frequently closed 
only within a larger value chain network. Thus, circular business models may give 
a relevant contribution to “a value chain network that enables a circular strategy 
through coordinated business model innovation” (p. 13). Underlying the idea of 
business model innovation is a circular strategy embedded in the firm’s value 
proposition. The definition also attempts to underscore that firms “should strive 
to take responsibility for closing material loops when the end-of-life is irreversibly 

 
 
reached and ensure that a gain in resource efficiency is achieved” (p. 13), 
regardless of where they are positioned in the value chain. 
Several authors have crafted typologies of sustainable and circular business 
models based on different criteria. First, Esposito, Tse, and Soufani (2018) discuss 
Lacy and Rutqvist’s (2015) proposition of five new business models designed 
according to circular economy principles. Second, Urbinati, Chiaroni, and Chiesa 
(2017) address the lack of a framework which clearly explains how organizations 
can create and/or adapt a business model by the development of a taxonomy of 
circular business models. This taxonomy builds on two major dimensions: 
customer value proposition and interface and value network, meaning interaction 
with suppliers and reorganization of internal activities. It identifies different 
degrees of circularity as adopted by firms in different industries. The third 
taxonomy aims to evaluate the effects or business models on true sustainability 
issues. Dyllick and Muff (2016) propose a three-stage typology of sustainable 
business models (SBM). SBMs range from Business Sustainability 1.0 – in reference 
to refined shareholder value management – to Business Sustainability 2.0 – with 
impacts measured based on the triple bottom line – to Business Sustainability 3.0 
(True Sustainability). According to the authors, a truly sustainable business “looks 
first at the external environment within which it operates and then asks itself what 
it can do to help overcome critical challenges that demand the resources and 
competencies it has at its disposal” (Dyllick & Muff, 2016, p. 166). The conclude 
that that major sustainability issues cannot be solved by businesses alone.  
Integrating circular business models with sustainable business models and value 
chains.  
In addition to research on the path from sustainable to circular business models, 
we included in our pool of selected papers research that do not explicitly refer to 
circular business models. At any rate, these studies examine business models in 
light of concepts associated with circular economy, particularly sustainability and 
sustainable development. Based on four case studies, Geissdoerfer and colleagues 
(2018) propose a framework to integrate circular business models and supply 
chains towards sustainable development. Their framework explains how different 
circular business models drive circular supply chains in closing loops, slowing 
loops, intensifying loops, narrowing loops, and dematerialising loops. 
Sustainability-oriented business model innovation can also be examined through 
the lens of a triple-layered business model canvas. As illustrated by the Nestlé 
Nespresso business model, this canvas tool allows for a visual representation of a 

 
 
business model, which contributes to “developing and communicating a more 
holistic and integrated view of a business model; which also supports creatively 
innovating towards more sustainable business models” (Joyce & Paquin, 2016, p. 
1474). The key contribution of triple-layered business model canvas is the fact that 
it allows for a triple bottom line perspective to sustainability, therefore including 
economic, environmental and social dimensions. The canvas integrates 
environmental and social canvas layers, which respectively stem from lifecycle and 
stakeholder perspectives, into an extended business model canvas that also 
includes the standard economic layer. 
Circular business models: areas of implementation 
Research suggests that most circular business models are predominantly 
implemented around waste.  Focusing on waste as a useful commodity, Tse et al. 
(2018) argue that the use of underutilized resources might amount to a 10 billion-
dollar property renting business, which could be created without the use of 
additional energy, metal, or other resources used to build houses. Furthermore, a 
business model based on circular economy principles might lead a company to 
increase its gross profit by 50% while reducing material use by 90%. This would be 
accomplished by recovering and remanufacturing used components. Also, the 
authors estimate that appropriate waste use might “turn around a country’s 
underutilized biomass resources to tap into an $80 billion market for advanced 
chemicals and energy” (Esposito, Tse, & Soufani, 2018, p. 10). So as to develop a 
model that allows for leveraging the use of underutilized resources, three key 
drivers are proposed, namely resource constraints, technological development, 
and socioeconomic opportunity. By following such an approach, business models 
would be based on ‘reincarnation’ and efficiencies in product design, systems 
design, and the use of new materials. Research shows that most circular economy-
related business initiatives focus on waste and recycling. It is argued that more 
advanced circular strategies would require significant social, institutional, and 
organizational changes that go well beyond these new business models and 
circular product deign (Bocken, Olivetti, Cullen, Potting, & Lifset, 2017). 
Business models, new products and services 
As seen above, significant area of research concerns production optimization and 
value chains. At the same time new areas of research focused on circular strategies 
focused on the relation between companies and customers are emerging. The first 
one concerns the nexus between business models and product design. Taking into 
account the challenges associated with circular business models and product 

 
 
design, Bocken and colleagues (2016) develop a simple framework of business 
model and product design strategies to be simultaneously implemented. Circular 
design strategies aim to either slow or close resource loops, including designing 
long-life products (e.g., design for attachment and trust or for reliability and 
durability) and designing for product-life extension (e.g., design for ease of 
maintenance and repair or design for dis- and reassembly). The framework 
comprises six business model strategies, namely: (i) an access and performance 
model, defined as that which provides “the capability or services to satisfy user 
needs without needing to own physical products” (p. 313), such as car sharing; (ii) 
a product value extension model, defined as that which exploits residual value of 
products or collection of products between different businesses, such as product 
return initiatives (e.g., IKEA’s Sell-Back Program); (iii) a classic long-life model, 
defined as that which focuses on delivering products with long life cycles; (iv) a 
sufficiency encouragement model, defined as that which actively seeks “to reduce 
end-user consumption through principles such as durability, upgradability, service, 
warranty and reparability, and a non-consumerist approach to marketing and 
sales (e.g., no sales commissions)” (op. cit.); (v) a resource value extension model, 
defined as that which exploits the residual value of resources, thus giving new 
forms of value to otherwise ‘wasted’ materials; and (vi) an industrial symbiosis 
model, defined as “[a] process-orientated solution, concerned with using residual 
outputs from one process as feedstock for another process, which benefits from 
geographical proximity of businesses” (op. cit.), such as eco-industrial parks. 
The second area concerns sharing economy. Sharing economy, which has recently 
emerged as a disruptive approach to traditional business models, is one of the 
circular strategies examined in our research. Drawing on a multi-year research 
program, Muñoz and Cohen (2018) propose the Sharing Business Model Compass, 
an actionable framework and generative tool that allows “entrepreneurs, 
investors, incubators, and incumbents interested in entering the sharing economy 
to create, present, and evolve a compelling sharing business model as well as 
evaluate its extent of robustness” (Muñoz & Cohen, 2018, p. 114). The authors 
have compiled illustrative evidence of applications of the Compass on the website 
sharingcompass.com, which includes cases in countries as diverse as Australia, 
Brazil, Canada, Germany, and Indonesia (Muñoz & Cohen, 2018). 
A third area of research concerns business models related to reuse. As said,  
research indicates that the main source of economic value from circular economy 
to a business organization is achieved through recycling, whereas the reuse 
principle seems to be underutilized as a source of economic value. As for the 

 
 
reduce principle, examined business models include a kind of take-back system to 
acquire waste suitable for recycling. Research also demonstrates that either the 
take-back service or the sold products made from recycled materials were closely 
related to an existing business (Ranta, Aarikka-Stenroos, & Mäkinen, 2018). 
The fourth research area concerns market acceptance and customer behavior. 
One key issue in the transition towards a circular business models lies in 
particularly in value propositions for a business to consumer scenario (Lieder, Asif, 
Rashid, Mihelic, & Kotnik, 2018). Indeed, Gullstrand Edbring et al. (2016) 
demonstrate that consumer behavior in the Swedish furniture industry varies 
greatly according to consumption models and product groups. Buying second-
hand furniture and short-term renting are favored over long-term renting. In turn, 
collaborative consumption has higher comsumer acceptance for seldom-used 
products. 
  A last and fifth research area concerns the social orientation of circular business 
models. Both multinational enterprises and small- and medium-sized firms are 
increasingly interested in the potential benefits of the circular economy and are 
therefore beginning to explore different business models. However, business 
models have been mostly concerned with the technological aspects of sustainable 
business models (Schroeder, Anggraeni, & Weber, 2018). More socially-oriented 
business models and practices, such as “ethical trade, consumer education to 
reduce unsustainable consumption, and sufficiency-driven business” (p. 3), have 
not been included among the core elements of circular business models. Indeed, 
the main enabling factor for these business models has been “an environmentally 
conscious corporate culture including management and staff” (p. 4). 
Circular economy, organizations, and management 
research 
The notion of a circular economy holds the promise of a paradigm shift, but how 
to translate the promise into achievable and effective action still requires further 
research. As this literature review demonstrates, organizational and management 
research has been relatively silent on the circular economy concept and on the 
challenges for its successful implementation. 
Management scholarship can give a valuable contribution to its development. In 
times of disruptive change, management usually thrives on knowledge from other 
fields, as it has done since its early developments as a discipline. Emerging theories 

 
 
and approaches from sustainability research might shed light on concepts key to 
the development of a circular economy. For example, an intergenerational 
perspective (Wade-Benzoni, 1999), which implies a move away from organization-
centered systems thinking, can potentially alter the conceptualization of economic 
interests and help expand circular economy’s main drivers. 
We propose several research areas. First, research on temporality can also give a 
meaningful contribution to circular economy thinking and implementation. For 
instance, the idea of a long-present (Kim, Bansal, & Haugh, forthcoming) as 
opposed to the present as a point in time might be very useful in the development 
of circular economy initiatives. Indeed, this research demonstrates the value of 
incremental changes towards the future when trade-offs between a desired 
present and a bright future were expected. All in all, the paradigm shift will not 
happen overnight through massive disruptive innovations, but rather through 
consistent incremental actions. A shift towards a circular economy requires the 
gradual development of circular systems around given value chains. Collectively, 
these various systems might help us get closer to an ideal circular economy. 
In line with this research, Ferraro, Etzion, and Gehman’s (2015) study on how to 
tackle grand challenges through robust action suggests a closer look at the 
construct of time. First, the authors define grand challenges as very complex 
problems, characterized by several interactions and associations and nonlinear 
dynamics; these problems are difficult (if not impossible) to forecast; and they 
implicate multiple criteria of worth, meaning that these problems may be 
interpreted differently by the several actors involved. Grand challenges affect 
large populations and their impacts transcend a single organization or even a 
single community. 
Moreover, Ferraro, Etzion, and Gehman (2015) discuss three different yet 
complimentary robust action strategies. These strategies do not offer definitive 
solutions to grand challenges. Rather, underlying these strategies is the notion of 
long-term, sustainable engagement around a series of incremental actions. 
Ferraro and colleagues’ (2015) theoretical model of robust action strategies also 
suggests a present longer than it is usually perceived. That is, three complimentary 
strategies (participatory architecture, multivocal inscription, and distributed 
experimentation) encompass a series of actions. This series of actions would form 
a cycle that might be perceived as pertaining to a long present. Then another cycle 
would follow and so on. 

 
 
The integration of the long present concept with robust action strategies suggests 
that actions be designed, monitored, and evaluated in light of these notions. That 
is, effectiveness should not be measured according to metrics that reflect a point 
in time. Also, effectiveness should mirror multiple accounts of worth, so that the 
different actors perceive value in the actions. 
These insights might inform empirical research on circular economy. One such 
grand challenge are the limited natural resources, a challenge involving 
governments, businesses, non-governmental organizations, and the society at 
large. This grand challenge encompasses not a problem, but a complex set of 
problems to which there is no single solution. The concept of robust action might 
help assess the effectiveness of circular economy-related initiatives. 
Conclusions 
This research examined the circular economy concept, its assumptions, and 
practices from an organizational and managerial perspective. This systematic 
literature review, comprising studies from 2010 to 2018, assessed how the 
concept translates into organizational strategy, business models, and practice as 
well as the roles played by organizations in its implementation. Also, we examined 
how opportunities and challenges are addressed in the implementation of circular 
strategies and business models. 
Our study reviewed the potential of the circular economy concept and how it holds 
the promise of a paradigm shift. Nonetheless, despite businesses’ increasing 
interest in the topic, how to translate the promise into achievable and effective 
action still requires further research. Organizational and management research 
has been relatively silent on this promising concept as well as on the challenges to 
its successful implementation. 
Future organizational and management research on circular economy can include 
topics such as the roles of different types of organizations involved in circular 
economy initiatives. Corporate Social Responsibility in general and Political 
Corporate Social Responsibility in particular might inform research on the roles of 
governmental organizations, businesses, and non-profit organizations, without 
which institutional policies might not fully accomplish their objectives. 
Furthermore, Corporate Social Responsibility might contribute to the 
development of the social dimension missing in circular economy thinking, thus 
moving beyond job creation. Lastly, the theoretical and practical development of 

 
 
circular economy calls for more empirical research that critically appraises 
successes and failures of circular economy implementation. 
References 
Blomsma, F., & Brennan, G. (2017). The Emergence of Circular Economy: A New 
Framing Around Prolonging Resource Productivity. Journal of Industrial 
Ecology, 21(3), 603-614. 
Bocken, N. M., Olivetti, E. A., Cullen, J. M., Potting, J., & Lifset, R. (2017). Taking 
the Circularity to the Next Level: A Special Issue on the Circular Economy. 
Journal of Industrial Ecology, 21(3), 476-482. 
Bocken, N. M., Pauw, I. d., Bakker, C., & Grinten, B. v. (2016). Product design and 
business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and 
Production Engineering, 33(5), 308–320. 
Boulding, K. E. (1966). The economics of the coming spaceship earth. In H. J. (Ed.), 
Environmental Quality Issues in a Growing Economy. Baltimore, MD: Johns 
Hopkins University Press. 
Briner, R. B., & Denyer, D. (2010). Systematic Review and Evidence Synthesis as a 
Practice and Scholarship Tool. In D. R. (Ed.), Handbook of Evidence-Based 
Management: Companies, Classrooms, and Research (pp. 328-374). Oxford: 
Oxford University Press. 
Dyllick, T., & Muff, K. (2016). Clarifying the Meaning of Sustainable Business: 
Introducing a Typology From Business-as-Usual to True Business 
Sustainability. Organization & Environment, 29(2), 156-174. 
Edbring, E. G., Lehner, M., & Mont, O. (2016). Exploring consumer attitudes to 
alternative models of consumption: motivations and barriers. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 123, 5-15. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2013). Towards the Circular Economy: Economic 
and Business Rationale for an Accelerated Transition. Retrieved Dec 29, 
2018, 
from 
Ellen 
MacArthur 
Foundation: 
https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/assets/downloads/publication
s/Ellen-MacArthur-Foundation-Towards-the-Circular-Economy-vol.1.pdf 
Esposito, M., Tse, T., & Soufani, K. (2018). Introducing a Circular Economy: New 
Thinking with New Managerial and Policy Implications. California 
Management Review, 60(3), 5–19. 
Ferraro, F., Etzion, D., & Gehman, J. (2015). Tackling Grand Challenges 
Pragmatically: Robust Action Revisited. Organization Studies, 36(3), 363 –
390. 

 
 
Forum for the Future. (2018). The Circular Economy Business Model Toolkit. 
Retrieved 
Nov 
11, 
2018, 
from 
Forum 
for 
the 
Future: 
https://www.forumforthefuture.org/the-circular-economy-business-
model-toolkit 
Frosch, D., & Gallopoulos, N. (1989). Strategies for manufacturing. Scientific 
American, 261(3), 94-102. 
Gallie, W. B. (1956). Essentially contested concepts. Proceedings of the 
Aristotelian Society. 55 (1), pp. 167-198. London: The Aristotelian Society. 
Garmulewicz, A., Holweg, M., Veldhuis, H., & Yang, A. (2018). Disruptive 
Technology as an Enabler of the Circular Economy: What Potential Does 3D 
Printing Hold? California Management Review, 60(3), 112-132. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Morioka, S. N., Carvalho, M. M., & Evans, S. (2018). Business 
models and supply chains for the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 190, 712-721. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M., & Hultink, E. J. (2017). The Circular 
Economy e A new sustainability paradigm? Journal of Cleaner Production, 
143, 757-768. 
Georgescu-Roegen, N. (1971). The Entropy Law and the Economic Process. 
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. 
Homrich, A. S., Galvão, G., Abadia, L. G., & Carvalho, M. M. (2018). The circular 
economy umbrella: Trends and gaps on integrating pathways. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 175, 525-543. 
International Reference Centre for the Life Cycle of Products, Processes and 
Services (CIRAIG). (2015). Circular economy: a critical literature review of 
concepts. Montréal: International Reference Centre for the Life Cycle of 
Products, Processes and Services (CIRAIG). 
Joyce, A., & Paquin, R. L. (2016). The triple layered business model canvas: A tool 
to design more sustainable business models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
135, 1474-1486. 
Kalmykova, Y., Sadagopan, M., & Rosado, L. (2018). Circular economy – From 
review of theories and practices to development of implementation tools. 
Resources, Conservation & Recyclin, 135, 190-201. 
Kim, A., Bansal, P., & Haugh, H. (forthcoming). No time like the present: How a 
present time perspective can foster sustainable development. Academy of 
Management Journal, In press. 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D., & Hekkert, M. (2017). Conceptualizing the circular 
economy: An analysis of 114 definitions. Resources, Conservation & 
Recycling, 127, 221-232. 
Korhonen, J., Honkasalo, A., & Seppälä, J. (2018). Circular Economy: The Concept 
and its Limitations. Ecological Economics, 143, 37–46. 

 
 
Korhonen, J., Nuur, C., Feldmann, A., & Birkie, S. E. (2018). Circular economy as an 
essentially contested concept. Journal of Cleaner Production, 175, 544-552. 
Kunz, N., Mayers, K., & Wassenhove, L. N. (2018). Stakeholder Views on Extended 
Producer Responsibility and the Circular Economy. California Management 
Review, 60(3), 45-70. 
Lacy, P., & Rutqvist, J. (2015). Waste to Wealth: The Circular Economy Advantage. 
Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan. 
Lèbre, É., Corder, G., & Golev, A. (2017). The Role of the Mining Industry in a 
Circular Economy A Framework for Resource Management at the Mine Site 
Level. Journal of Industrial Ecology, 21(3), 662-672. 
Lieder, M., Asif, F. M., Rashid, A., Mihelic, A., & Kotnik, S. (2018). A conjoint analysis 
of circular economy value propositions for consumers: Using “washing 
machines in Stockholm” as a case study. Journal of Cleaner Production, 172, 
264-273. 
Mathews, J. A., Tan, H., & Hu, M.-C. (2018). Moving to a Circular Economy in China: 
Transforming Industrial Parks into Eco-industrial Parks. California 
Management Reviews, 60(3), 157-181. 
Merli, R., Preziosi, M., & Acampora, A. (2018). How do scholars approach the 
circular economy? A systematic literature review. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 178, 703-722. 
Moreau, V., Sahakian, M., Griethuysen, P. v., & Vuille, F. (2017). Coming Full Circle: 
Why Social and Institutional Dimensions Matter for the Circular Economy. 
Journal of Industrial Ecology, 21(3), 497-506. 
Morgan, G. (2006). Images of the organization. Updated edition. Thousand Oaks, 
CA: Sage. 
Muñoz, P., & Cohen, B. (2018). A Compass for Navigating Sharing Economy 
Business Models. California Management Review, 61(1), 114-147. 
Murray, A., Skene, K., & Haynes, K. (2017). The Circular Economy: An 
Interdisciplinary Exploration of the Concept and Application in a Global 
Context. Journal of Business Ethics, 140, 369–380. 
Nußholz, J. L. (2017). Circular Business Models: Defining a Concept and Framing an 
Emerging Research Field. Sustainability, 9(1810), 1-16. 
Pagotto, M., & Halog, A. (2015). Towards a Circular Economy in Australian Agri-
food Industry An Application of Input-Output Oriented Approaches for 
Analyzing Resource Efficiency and Competitiveness Potential. Journal of 
Industrial Ecology, 20(5), 1176-1186. 
Ranta, V., Aarikka-Stenroos, L., & Mäkinen, S. J. (2018). Creating value in the 
circular economy: A structured multiple-case analysis of business models. 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 201, 988-1000. 

 
 
Sauvé, S., Bernard, S., & Sloan, P. (2016). Environmental sciences, sustainable 
development and circular economy: Alternative concepts for trans-
disciplinary research. Environmental Development, 17, 48–56. 
Schroeder, P., Anggraeni, K., & Weber, U. (2018). The Relevance of Circular 
Economy Practices to the Sustainable Development Goals. Journal of 
Industrial Ecology, 00(0), 1-19. 
Skene, K. R. (2018). Circles, spirals, pyramids and cubes: why the circular economy 
cannot work. Sustainability Science, 13, 479–492. 
Su, B., Heshmati, A., Geng, Y., & Yu, X. (2013). A review of the circular economy in 
China: moving from rhetoric to implementation. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 42, 215-227. 
Tranfield, D., Denyer, D., & Smart, P. (2003). Towards a Methodology for 
Developing Evidence-Informed Management Knowledge by Means of 
Systematic Review. British Journal of Management, 14(3), 207–222. 
Urbinati, A., Chiaroni, D., & Chiesa, V. (2017). Towards a new taxonomy of circular 
economy business models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 168, 487-498. 
Wade-Benzoni, K. A. (1999). Thinking about the future: An intergenerational 
perspective on the conflict and compatibility between economic and 
environmental interests. American Behavioral Scientist, 42(8), 1393-1405. 
Winans, K., Kendall, A., & Deng, H. (2017). The history and current applications of 
the circular economy concept. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 
68, 825–833. 
Zhu, Q., Geng, Y., Sarkis, J., & Lai, K.-H. (2014). Barriers to Promoting Eco-Industrial 
Parks Development in China Perspectives from Senior Officials at National 
Industrial Parks. Journal of Industrial Ecology, 19(3), 457-467. 
 
 
 

 
 
Figure 1. Selected journals in alphabetical order 
 
 
 
 
Publication Title
Academy of Management Journal
Academy of Management Review
Accounting Review
Accounting, Organizations and Society
Administrative Science Quarterly
American Economic Review
California Management Review
Contemporary Accounting Research
Ecological Economics
Econometrica
Energy Policy
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice
Environment: Science and Policy for Sustainable Development
Environmental Development
Global Environmental Change
Harvard Business Review
Human Relations
Human Resource Management
Information Systems Research
International Journal of Production Research
Journal of Accounting and Economics
Journal of Accounting Research
Journal of Applied Psychology
Journal of Business Ethics
Journal of Business Venturing
Journal of Cleaner Production
Journal of Consumer Psychology
Journal of Consumer Research
Journal of Finance
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis
Journal of Financial Economics
Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering
Journal of Industrial Ecology
Journal of International Business Studies
Journal of Management
Journal of Management Information Systems 
Journal of Management Studies
Journal of Marketing
Journal of Marketing Research
Journal of Operations Management
Journal of Political Economy
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science
Management Science
Manufacturing & Service Operations Management
Marketing Science
MIS Quarterly
MIT Sloan Management Review
Operations Research
Organization Science
Organization Studies
Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes
Production and Operations Management
Quarterly Journal of Economics
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews
Research Policy
Resources, Conservation and Recycling
Review of Accounting Studies
Review of Economic Studies
Review of Finance
Review of Financial Studies
Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal
Strategic Management Journal
Sustainability
Sustainability Science

 
 
Figure 2. Selected studies and corresponding publication outlets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABI/INFORM Collection
California Management Review
9
ABI/INFORM Collection
International Journal of Production Research
3
ABI/INFORM Collection
Journal of Business Ethics
2
ABI/INFORM Collection
Journal of Industrial Ecology
15
ABI/INFORM Collection
Journal of Management Information 
Systems
1
ABI/INFORM Collection
Journal of Marketing Research
1
ABI/INFORM Collection
Journal of the Academy of Marketing 
Science
1
ABI/INFORM Collection
MIS Quarterly
1
ABI/INFORM Collection
MIT Sloan Management Review
2
ABI/INFORM Collection
Sustainability Science
3
EBSCO Academic 
Search Complete
Journal of Cleaner Production
41
Science Direct
Ecological Economics
4
Science Direct
Environmental Development
1
Science Direct
Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering
1
Science Direct
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews
1
Science Direct
Resources, Conservation and Recycling
2
Science Direct
Sustainability
1
Total
89
Database
Publication Title
Total

 
 
Configuring new business models for 
circular economy  
From patterns and design options to action 
 
Marina P.P. Pieroni1,*, Tim C. McAloone1, Daniela C. A. Pigosso1  
 
1 Technical University of Denmark (DTU), Department of Mechanical 
Engineering, Nils Koppels Allé 404 / Room 229, DK- 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, 
Denmark 
 
*mdpp@dtu.dk 
 
Abstract  
This article introduces the ‘dynamic circular economy-driven business model 
configurator’, which aims to guide companies in sensing opportunities and 
seizing/designing business model concepts for circular economy. The configurator 
is based on patterns and design options consolidated from theory, retrospective 
case analysis, and action research with five manufacturing companies.   
Keywords 
Business model innovation, circular economy, business model configurator, 
business model pattern, action research 
Introduction 
Often seen as a means to achieving sustainability, circular economy (CE) is gaining 
importance in the agenda of government, companies, investors and the civil 
society. CE aims to establish a resource effective and efficient economic system 
(Geissdoerfer et al., 2017a) by intentionally narrowing, slowing and ‘ideally’ 
closing materials and energy flows (Bocken et al., 2016; EMF, 2015).  
From an organizational perspective, building capabilities for CE requires not only  

 
 
technological or product innovation, but systemic value innovation with the 
configuration of new business models (BM) in fit with CE principles (Schulte, 2013). 
Designing and implementing these new BMs is challenging, as companies need to 
dare and discover how to break the incumbent ‘industry recipes’ (Matthyssens et 
al., 2006) or ‘rules of the game’ (Teece, 2010) impregnated with the linear (i.e. 
take-make-dispose) mental model.  
Using the lens of dynamic capabilities (Matthyssens, 2019; Teece, 2017), Pieroni 
et al. (2019) suggests three stages to guide companies in breaking the linear 
‘industrial recipes’ through CE-driven BM innovation. These are: (i) sensing and 
making sense of CE opportunities in the ecosystem, (ii) seizing the opportunities 
by designing new CE-oriented value generation architectures (i.e. CE-oriented BM 
concepts), and (iii) transforming/renewing operational capabilities accordingly to 
implement the CE-oriented BMs. The first stage of sensing and making sense of CE 
opportunities requires decision-makers in the companies to “recognize internal 
beliefs”, “identify the need to learn about CE”, “question linear assumptions” and 
adopt an “explorative attitude through external sources” (Pieroni et al. 
(submitted)).  
The external sources to help the organizations are many, as different approaches 
on how to innovate BMs for CE are already available in academia/practice (Pieroni 
et al., 2019). The majority of conceptual frameworks for CE-oriented BMI are 
typologies and taxonomies (Accenture, 2014; Bakker et al., 2014; Bocken et al., 
2016; BSI, 2017; Diaz Lopez et al., 2019; Forum for the Future and Unilever, 2016; 
Lacy et al., 2013; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2019; Nussholz, 2017; Planing, 2018; 
Weetman, 2016; WRAP, 2018), which explain potential mechanisms or solutions 
(i.e. the new CE-driven ‘recipes’) for designing CE-oriented BMs. Additionally, 
inspirational cases of companies embracing the CE principles are flourishing. 
Despite this aforementioned diversity in intellectual content, a question that still 
remains is how to transfer this conceptual knowledge/learnings to the real world 
practice in an effective and useful approach?  
First, some work is necessary to establish consensus on terminologies (Pieroni et 
al., 2019). Additionally, improvements are required to explore the full potential 
and possibilities of BM configurations to embed CE-oriented strategies (Pieroni et 
al., 2018). Lastly, companies deciding to perform CE-driven BMI ask for more 
specific, simple and ‘digested’ version of the ‘external content/knowledge’ to 
make sense of which type of CE-oriented BM would work for their context. 

 
 
The aim of this research is to create a link between available conceptual 
knowledge and action. This article introduces the dynamic CE-driven business 
model configurator, which intends to guide companies in sensing and making 
sense of CE opportunities and seizing or designing CE-oriented BMs with systemic 
value concepts. Based on CE-oriented BM patterns consolidated from reviewing 
theory and practice (i.e. with retrospective analysis of more than 150 cases) and 
action research cycles with manufacturing companies, a prototype of the 
configurator (i.e. an Excel tool that generates content for a printed collection of 
patterns, design options and frameworks) was proposed and preliminarily tested 
in three companies from three industrial sectors.   
The next three sections explain the research method applied to build the 
configurator, present the configurator logic and discusses initial application with 
manufacturing companies, and conclude with remarks about expected results, 
limitations and future research.   
Research method 
The development of the dynamic CE-driven BM configurator followed a 
hypothetic-deductive approach (Gill and Johnson, 2002), including cycles of theory 
development followed by empirical development and testing (Fig. 1). 
 
Fig. 1- Research method. 
 
Cycle 1 
Existing conceptual patterns (i.e. archetypes, types, typologies, strategies) of BMs 
for CE were identified from a previous literature review study (in Pieroni et al.  
(2019)). By applying content analysis (Dresch et al., 2015), the patterns were 

 
 
compared, consolidated and categorized in two clusters: (i) upstream and (ii) 
downstream (Urbinati et al., 2017). Due to the complexity of CE, spanning the 
boundaries of single organizations, the patterns within each of the 
aforementioned clusters were further categorized based on Amshoff et al. (2015), 
who suggest that patterns affect different hierarchical levels. Two sub-clusters 
were introduced: prototypical (i.e. describing the logic of an industry or role of 
actors in the value chain) and solution patterns (i.e. describing building blocks or 
elements of one BM) (AMSHOFF et al., 2015). 
Afterwards, retrospective case studies were conducted to add a contextual 
perspective and provide insights about potential sectorial particularities (Wells, 
2016). Grey literature was reviewed to identify existing cases of companies that 
have adopted CE-oriented BMs. The cases were selected from secondary sources 
– i.e. knowledge databases on CE developed by international organizations (Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation and the Knowledge Hub developed by Circle Economy). 
Primary source - i.e. companies websites and public reports – were checked for 
additional information when necessary. The selected cases followed two criteria: 
(i) explicitly present examples of new BMs for CE; and (ii) from specific industry 
sectors: electronics, capital goods, textile, furniture, medical devices, and food.  
The analysis of the cases, for extraction of patterns, followed the same 
aforementioned procedure, adding one more category, i.e., industry sector. The 
patterns emerging from the retrospective case analysis served the purpose of 
testing the validity of the generic patterns emerging from literature. Additionally, 
the sectorial patterns contributed to expanding or adding particularities for the 
breadth of patterns (typology) and for the logic of patterns combination 
(taxonomy/morphology). 
Lastly, information about possible BM design options associated with the different 
patterns and their combinations were extracted and categorized according to BM 
elements: systemic outcomes/potential for CE (economic, resource decoupling, 
and secondary environmental or social effects); value proposition statement; 
offering (products/services); customers; value/benefits for customers; network; 
value/benefits for network; upstream or delivery capabilities; downstream or 
creation capabilities; revenue mechanisms; costs; and financial model. These 
twelve elements were adapted from previously developed BM frameworks 
(Biloslavo et al., 2018; Kraaijenhagen et al., 2016), which build on the ‘value 
concept’ largely disseminated in BM literature/industries (Osterwalder and 
Pigneur, 2010; Richardson, 2008). 

 
 
The outputs of Cycle 1 were used as foundations to create a conceptual framework 
or initial version of the dynamic CE-driven BM configurator to be refined/validated 
in practice in Cycle 2. The configurator was inspired by previous works (Barquet et 
al., 2013; Hellek et al., 2013) that applied similar approach from Design Sciences 
to propose practical tools able to support BMs’ design during the development of 
product-service systems. 
 
Cycle 2 
Action research (AR) cycles were carried out in five manufacturing companies from 
three sectors (i) capital goods, (ii) electronics, and (iii) furniture sectors. AR is a 
form of applied research that combines scientific methods with organizational 
knowledge and involves the active collaboration of researchers and companies’ 
members to propose solutions to real organizational problems while building 
theory in practice (Coughlan and Coghlan, 2002; Goedkoop et al., 1999; 
Mathiassen, 2017). The cycles of AR were carried out from February 2018 to 
February 2019. After each AR cycle, improvement opportunities for the 
configurator were identified and considered for changing the configurator 
throughout cycles, generating different versions (e.g. v1, v2…vfinal). In parallel to 
these AR cycles, new theoretical relevant scientific articles emerging from 
literature after we had already started the AR cycles were collected and 
considered for expanding or also validating the configurator´s ‘backbone’ (e.g. the 
sustainable or CE BM patterns taxonomy documented in Lüdeke-Freund et al. 
(2018) and Lüdeke-Freund et al. (2019)). The output of Cycle 2 was the final version 
of the configurator with sector-specific recommendations for the capital goods, 
electronics, and furniture sectors.   
Preliminary Results  
The dynamic CE-driven BM configurator 
The dynamic CE-driven BM configurator is structured in three modules: (1) 
identification of opportunities, (2) configuration of BM ideas, and (3) configuration 
of BM concepts.  Each module of the configurator is supported by specific 
conceptual frameworks (Fig.2).  
The first module is supported by typologies of CE-oriented patterns for upstream 
and downstream BM architecture and including both generic and sectorial 
particularities. The second module is supported by a taxonomy with potential 
combinations of patterns, i.e., based on sectorial case studies. The third module is 

 
 
supported by a morphologic box organizing the design options according to the 
specific BM patterns. The application of each module is explained next. 
 
 
Fig. 2- Foundations of the CE-driven BM configurator. 
Module 1 – Identification of opportunities of BMs for CE 
This module involves an analysis of the current BM in terms of CE strategies (i.e. 
which linear and circular characteristics/patterns are present). 
Moreover, change drivers that can lead to opportunities or restrictions for 
developing CE-oriented BMs are investigated, with the support of a structured 
checklist covering trends in (1) market, (2) collaboration and value network, and 
(3) macro-factors following a PESTEL (political, environmental, social, 
technological, economic and legal) analysis.  
Lastly, several BM opportunities or possibilities of BM patterns (i.e. generic 
mechanisms or solutions for designing CE-oriented BM (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 
2019; Remane et al., 2017) – see Fig. 2) with case studies examples are available 
to support companies in ideating about what would be the most adequate for 
their context. The configurator also provides guidance on the selection of 
adequate patterns suggesting promising alternatives that relate with the input of 
opportunities or restrictions. 

 
 
Module 2 – Configuration of CE-oriented BM ideas 
Inspired by the value innovation literature (Matthyssens, 2019), we define CE-
oriented BM ideas as specific mechanisms for CE-oriented BM innovation 
adapted/specified to each company’s context, usually adding information that is 
not generalizable – e.g. customers; value proposition – and triggering a deeper 
questioning of existing frames. CE-oriented BM ideas can be understood as 
combinations of patterns (previously identified in Module 1) specified for a 
particular organizational context. The combination of BM patterns to 
configure/create BM ideas occurs in two steps by asking the questions:  
 
(i) 
‘What will the company offer?’ -  aiming to capture patterns related to 
the downstream part of the BM. 
(ii) 
‘How will that be offered?’ – aiming to explore patterns for the 
upstream part of the BM. 
After combining patterns in different potential BM ideas/configurations 
(downstream and upstream), the configurator provides a ‘benchmarking’ or 
‘estimation’ of potential benefits (i.e. systemic benefits for economy, environment 
and society, plus benefits for customers assembled from case studies) to support 
companies in making a prioritization or decision of which BMs to detail further.  
Module 3 – Configuration of CE-oriented BM concepts 
The third module involves two steps. First the prioritized CE-oriented BM ideas are 
transformed into solution principles with initial value proposition concepts. This 
involves: indicating key stakeholders that could benefit from the BM idea, 
describing ‘what would the stakeholders get’ (i.e. implicit promise) with the BM 
idea, and consolidating/confirming the potential benefits/values for the 
stakeholders and for the aspects of CE and sustainability (e.g. economic, resource 
decoupling, or secondary environmental/social effects). 
As a second step, the configurator suggests design options (i.e. available options 
or attributes for designing the elements of the BM (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2019), 
e.g., ‘pay-per-use’) to configure all twelve elements of the BM. Moreover, it 
highlights the potential differences in configurations, providing information about 
cases that can support the discussion and decision/choice. The final deliverables 
of this module are BM concepts, which are representations that enable 

 
 
articulating the complete logic of how the new/reconfigured CE-oriented BM will 
work (Lay et al., 2009). Differently than Amshoff et al. (2015), the BM concepts 
generated by this configurator are more specific and closer to the context of the 
companies, because of the sectorial logic of the patterns. However, a further stage 
of assessment and detailing (customization) are important, as explained in the 
conclusions.  
Application of the configurator in manufacturing companies 
For the initial application, the configurator was structured in Excel. Future versions 
envision the utilization of more dynamic software. The Excel version of the 
configurator was used as a supporting tool for the application in the five 
manufacturing companies, generating information to populate more interactive 
frameworks (e.g. a collection of printed patterns or design options in the format 
of cards, printed frameworks for combination of patterns or visualization of the 
BM concept) that are more suitable for groups’ discussion.  
Modules 1/2 and 3 occurred in two separate workshops, lasting approximately 6h 
each and involving participants with diverse skills and expertise, e.g. 
marketing/sales, services/product development, after sales/customer services, 
operations, corporate social responsibility, IT, business strategy and finance. 
Representatives from the company leadership or top management participated in 
all workshops. The number of participants varied from three to ten, according to 
the company size. 
Based on the results obtained in each AR cycle (Table 1 and Fig. 4), there is a strong 
indication that the configurator is useful to facilitate fast ideation and simulation 
sessions of CE-driven BM innovation, providing knowledge about CE from external 
sources in an interactive and focused process.   
The feedback provided by individual participants were also positive to the 
usefulness of the configurator. Participants mentioned that the configurator 
“made the process easier" and “has clarified and confirmed many choices that 
have been based on assumptions earlier”. Moreover, according to their opinion, 
strengths or differentials of the configurator are:  "the use of examples from 
different 
industries 
to 
stimulate 
ideation", 
"interesting/great 
to 
see 
more/different cases/examples of companies experimenting with circular BMs 
and the information of what works and trade-offs, also showing cases of 
discontinuation of initiatives". 

 
 
However, improvements related to the usability of the configurator were 
suggested. Some of these were incorporated along the AR cycles, producing 
positive effects in the usability as illustrated in Fig. 4 and also with the increased 
efficiency in the transformation of BM ideas into BM concepts (Table 1).   
Table 1 – Results obtained with the application of the configurator in the action research (AR). 
Legend: BM- business model.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AR# 
Sector 
CE-oriented BM ideas  
Modules 1 and 2 
CE-oriented BM concepts             
Module 3 
01 
Electronics 
68 
 
4 
02 
Capital goods 
31 
 
3 
03 
Furniture 
10 
8 
04 
Electronics 
19 
8 
05 
Furniture 
4 
4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 - Feedback provided by individual participants in each action research (AR) according to the 
configurator modules (Legend - Scores: 1 = Unsatisfactory; 2 = Needs improvement; 3 = 
Satisfactory; 4 = Very satisfactory/ n = participants).   
 
Final considerations about usefulness 
The configurator is a planning tool suited for the very early stage of when 
manufacturing companies decide to move towards circular economy. Its purpose 
is to trigger change of mindset towards CE by acting around the dynamic 
capabilities concept (individual managerial and organizational skills). As 
mentioned in the introduction, CE will require ‘breaking industry recipes’ and 
consequently the silo/organizational-centric view. However, we understand that 
this require parsimony to increase awareness and change the organization 
capabilities while respecting and convincing people. Hence, the configurator starts 
3.0
3.1
3.3
4.0
3
SATISFACTION LEVEL
CONFIGURATOR MODULES 1 & 2
AR01 (n=1)
AR02 (n=8)
AR03 (n=3)
AR04 (n=1)
AR05 (n=1)
3.0
2.9
3.0
4.0
3
SATISFACTION LEVEL
CONFIGURATOR MODULE 3
AR01 (n=1)
AR02 (n=9)
AR03 (n=3)
AR04 (n=1)
AR05 (n=1)

 
 
with the organizational-centric approach (e.g. using BM frameworks that are 
inheritances from linear economic logic or having one company leading the 
process), but it leads the companies to gradually realize the importance of 
collaborations and the organizational or ecosystem view for CE. For instance, one 
of the patterns’ category for the ‘upstream’ is called ‘collaborate to close the loop’, 
and they contain several ways or actors being created in the value chains of 
specific industries (or cross industries) to guarantee the circularity of products and 
materials. In our view and also in accordance to recent research (Perey et al., 
2018), some actor(s) in the value chain have to take the lead and start thinking 
about CE first internally, then absorb the concepts, and then lead the initiatives 
that will definitely occur collaboratively. The configurator wants to incentivize 
more of those individual actors acting in the position of manufacturers to change 
their perspectives and way of operating and inevitably influence others. From the 
preliminary applications, we noticed a positive uptake of this logic, as all five 
companies realized the importance of partnerships and necessary changes in the 
value chain either because they lacked the capabilities required for CE or to justify 
the investments for establishing reverse flows. Therefore, the companies 
proceeded with this investigation of how to collaborate and promote changes in 
the value chain based on their planned BM concepts, but using other 
methodologies. 
Conclusions 
To answer to the question - how to transfer conceptual knowledge and learnings 
about CE-driven BMI to the real world practice in an effective and useful approach 
- this article introduces the dynamic CE-driven BM configurator. The configurator 
was built from CE-driven BM patterns consolidated from reviewing theory and 
practice (i.e. with retrospective analysis of more than 150 case studies for BMs), 
followed by action research cycles with manufacturing companies in electronics, 
capital goods and furniture.   
This managerial tool intends to guide decision-makers in companies with sensing 
and making sense of CE opportunities and seizing or designing CE-oriented BMs 
with systemic value concepts.  
This research contributes to the academic community and the New Business 
Models conference by building knowledge in the intersection of CE and new BMs/ 
BM innovation literature, envisioning both academic and practitioner 
perspectives. Moreover, the logic of the configurator could be expanded to fit 

 
 
other applications/drivers of BMI (e.g. servitisation, digitization). This work will 
also largely benefit companies that are planning to engage in CE and need to 
define where and how to start with fast modelling and simulations of scenarios of 
different CE-oriented BM concepts.  
Some limitations or challenges of this research are related to the nature of the 
literature review techniques (i.e. snowballing and grey literature reviews) and 
retrospective case studies (i.e. based mainly on content analysis of primary and 
secondary sources of information), potentially leading to selection bias. Moreover, 
inclined to create a tool that will be understood and practically applied by 
companies, the configurator still rely on some well-known concepts of linear 
economic dynamics (e.g. using BM frameworks that are inheritances of linear 
economic logic or having one company leading the process), which might mislead 
some users in underestimating the complexity/dimension of changes required for 
linear economy. Furthermore, the configurator still requires further development 
to cope with requirements appointed by the companies and empirical verification.  
Future research to address those challenges envisions:  
(i) 
the inclusion of a ‘module 4’, to enable the assessment of customer 
value potential (qualitative), economic potential (quantitative), 
resource decoupling potential (quantitative), and potential secondary 
effects on environmental or social aspects for BM concepts;  
(ii) 
transferring the configurator to a more flexible/dynamic software 
(ideally online tool);  
(iii) 
adjusting the level of information in the design options (more 
concise/abstract);  
(iv) 
refining the logic of suggestion of patterns configurations; 
(v) 
conducting new AR cycles for expanding the coverage of industrial 
sectors (food, medical devices and textile);  
(vi) 
testing the final versions of the configurator by consulting specialists 
from academia and practice;  
(vii) 
conducting case studies with a broader group of manufacturing 
companies in different organizational contexts.  

 
 
Funding and acknowledgements 
This paper is one of the outcomes of the research project CIRCit (Circular Economy 
Integration 
in 
the 
Nordic 
Industry 
for 
Enhanced 
Sustainability 
and 
Competitiveness), which is part of the Nordic Green Growth Research and 
Innovation Programme (grant numbers: 83144) and jointly funded by NordForsk, 
Nordic Energy Research, and Nordic Innovation. The authors would like to thank 
the CIRCit consortium - Research Institutes of Sweden (RISE), Technology 
Industries Finland, Innovation Center Iceland, Norwegian University of Science and 
Technology (NTNU) and colleagues from the Technical University of Denmark – for 
facilitating the engagement with companies and participating in enriching 
discussions about Circular Economy.  We are particularly grateful for the technical 
support received from Eivind Kristoffersen, Mariia Kravchenko and Fenna 
Blomsma in the action research cycles. Special thanks goes to the participating 
companies and their engaged collaborators for the opportunity and close 
cooperation that made this research possible. Lastly, we thank the anonymous 
reviewers for their suggestions and considerations. 
References 
Accenture. (2014), Circular Advantage: Innovative Business Models and 
Technologies to Create Value in a World without Limits to Growth, 
https://www.accenture.com/t20150523T053139__w__/us-
en/_acnmedia/Accenture/Conversion-
Assets/DotCom/Documents/Global/PDF/Strategy_6/Accenture-Circular-
Advantage-Innovative-Business-Models-Technologies-Value-Growth.pdf 
(accessed 30 June 2018). 
AMSHOFF, B., DÜLME, C., ECHTERFELD, J. and GAUSEMEIER, J. (2015), Business 
Model Patterns for Disruptive Technologies, International Journal of 
Innovation Management, 19 (03), 1540002. 
Bakker, C., Den Hollander, M., Van Hinte, E. and Zljlstra, Y. (2014), Products That 
Last: Product Design for Circular Business Models. 
Barquet, A.P.B., de Oliveira, M.G., Amigo, C.R., Cunha, V.P. and Rozenfeld, H. 
(2013), Employing the business model concept to support the adoption of 
product-service systems (PSS), Industrial Marketing Management, Elsevier 
Inc., 42 (5), 693–704. 
Biloslavo, R., Bagnoli, C. and Edgar, D. (2018), An eco-critical perspective on 
business models: The value triangle as an approach to closing the 
sustainability gap, Journal of Cleaner Production, Elsevier Ltd, 174, 746–762. 

 
 
Bocken, N.M.P., de Pauw, I., Bakker, C. and van der Grinten, B. (2016), Product 
design and business model strategies for a circular economy, Journal of 
Industrial and Production Engineering, 33 (5), 308–320. 
BSI. (2017), BS 8001:2017. Framework for Implementing the Principles of the 
Circular Economy in Organizations – Guide. 
Coughlan, P. and Coghlan, D. (2002), Action research for operations management, 
International Journal of Operations and Production Management, 22 (2), 
220–240. 
Diaz Lopez, F.J., Bastein, T. and Tukker, A. (2019), Business Model Innovation for 
Resource-efficiency, Circularity and Cleaner Production: What 143 Cases Tell 
Us, Ecological Economics, Elsevier, 155 (March 2017), 20–35. 
Dresch, A., Lacerda, D.P. and Antunes Jr., J.A.V. (2015), Design Science Research, 
Springer International Publishing, Cham, Switzerland. 
Forum for the Future and Unilever. (2016), Circular business models, Circular 
Business Models - Infographics. 
Gill, J. and Johnson, P. (2002), Research Methods for Managers, Sage Publications 
Ltd, London. 
Goedkoop, M., van Halen, J., te Riele, H. and Rommens, P. (1999), Product-Service 
Systems, Ecological and Economic Basics., Report for Dutch Ministries of 
environment (VROM) and economic affairs (EZ). 
Hellek, K., McAloone, T.C., Avlonitis, V., Garcia i Mateu, A., Andersen, J.B., 
Mougaard, K., Neugebauer, L., et al. (2013), PSS Tool Book: A Workbook in 
the PROTEUS Series, PRO-04, Technical University of Denmark (DTU)., 
Denmark. 
Kraaijenhagen, C., Van Open, C. and Bocken, N. (2016), Circular Business 
Collaborate and Circulate, Circular Collaboration, The Netherlands. 
Lacy, P., Rosenber, D., Drewell, Q. and Rutqvist, J. (2013), 5 Business Models That 
Are 
Driving 
the 
Circular 
Economy., 
https://www.fastcompany.com/1681904/5-business-models-that-are-
driving-the-circular-economy (accessed 30 June 2018). 
Lay, G., Schroeter, M. and Biege, S. (2009), Service-based business concepts: A 
typology for business-to-business markets, European Management Journal, 
27 (6), 442–455. 
Lüdeke-freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A. and Massa, L. (2018), The sustainable 
business model pattern taxonomy — 45 patterns to support sustainability-
oriented business model innovation, Sustainable Production and 
Consumption, Elsevier B.V., 15, 145–162. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Gold, S. and Bocken, N.M.P. (2019), A Review and Typology of 
Circular Economy Business Model Patterns, Journal of Industrial Ecology, 23 
(1), 36–61. 

 
 
Mathiassen, L. (2017), Designing Engaged Scholarship: From Real-World Problems 
to Research Publications, Engaged Management ReView, 1 (1). 
Matthyssens, P. (2019), Reconceptualizing value innovation for Industry 4 . 0 and 
the Industrial Internet of Things. 
Matthyssens, P., Vandenbempt, K. and Berghman, L. (2006), Value innovation in 
business markets : Breaking the industry recipe, 35, 751–761. 
Nussholz, J. (2017), Circular Business Model Framework : Mapping value creation 
architectures along the product lifecycle, PLATE Conference – TU Delft, 8/10 
November 2017. 
Osterwalder, A. and Pigneur, Y. (2010), Business Model Generation, Self Published, 
Amsterdam. 
Perey, R., Benn, S., Agarwal, R. and Edwards, M. (2018), The place of waste: 
Changing business value for the circular economy, Business Strategy and the 
Environment, 27 (5), 631–642. 
Pieroni, M., Pigosso, D. and McAloone, T. (2018), Exploring the synergistic 
relationships of circular business model development and product design., 
INTERNATIONAL DESIGN CONFERENCE - DESIGN 2018, pp. 2715–2726. 
Pieroni, M.P.P., McAloone, T.C. and Pigosso, D.C.A. (2019), Business model 
innovation for circular economy and sustainability: A review of approaches, 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 215, 198–216. 
Planing, P. (2018), Towards a circular economy - how business model innovation 
will help to make the shift, International Journal of Business and 
Globalisation, 20 (1), 71. 
Remane, G., Hanelt, A., Tesch, J.A.N.F. and Kolbe, L.M. (2017), THE BUSINESS 
MODEL PATTERN DATABASE — A TOOL FOR SYSTEMATIC BUSINESS MODEL 
INNOVATION, 21 (1). 
Richardson, J. (2008), The business model: an integrative framework for strategy 
execution, Strategic Change, 17 (5–6), 133–144. 
Schulte, U.G. (2013), New business models for a radical change in resource 
efficiency, Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, Elsevier B.V., 
9, 43–47. 
Teece, D.J. (2010), Business Models, Business Strategy and Innovation, Long Range 
Planning, Elsevier Ltd, 43 (2–3), 172–194. 
Teece, D.J. (2017), Business models and dynamic capabilities, Long Range 
Planning, Elsevier Ltd, 1–10. 
Urbinati, A., Chiaroni, D. and Chiesa, V. (2017), Towards a new taxonomy of 
circular economy business models, Journal of Cleaner Production, Elsevier 
Ltd, 168, 487–498. 

 
 
Weetman, C. (2016), A Circular Economy Handbook for Business and Supply 
Chains: Repair, Remake, Redesign, Rethink., Kogan Page Publishers, New 
York. 
Wells, P. (2016), Economies of Scale Versus Small Is Beautiful, Organization & 
Environment, 29 (1), 36–52. 
WRAP. 
(2018), 
Innovative 
Business 
Models 
Map, 
http://www.wrap.org.uk/resource-efficient-business-models/innovative-
business-models (accessed 30 June 2018). 
 

 
 
Could Circular Business Models 
Provide a Solution for E-waste? 
Insights from a Refrigerator Recycling Company 
 
Clarissa Alejandra González Chávez1,*, Doroteya Vladimirova2,  
Mélanie Despeisse1, Björn Johansson1, Henrik Jilvero3, Steve Evans2  
 
1Chalmers University of Technology, Industrial and Material Sciences 
 2University of Cambridge, Centre for Industrial Sustainability 
3STENA Recycling AB 
*clarissa.gonzalez@chalmers.se 
  
 
Extended abstract 
 
Introduction 
A growing number of companies have begun to include the concept of 
sustainability in their strategy consideration. Business model innovation looks at 
how organizations create and capture value at every stage of an offering’s journey 
to market (Geissdoerfer, Vladimirova and Evans, 2018). The low-level of 
integration that organizations have achieved between the business model 
innovation concept with sustainability is mainly due to sustainability being treated 
as an add-on rather than as a core source of value (Yang, Vladimirova and Evans, 
2017). Additionally, the lack of documented case studies makes it challenging for 
firms to understand how to innovate business models and identify alternatives 
that integrate sustainability (Barquet et al., 2016).  
  
Fast global development has brought along a set of new opportunities for 
Sustainable Business Model Innovation (Prendeville and Bocken, 2017). A way to 
approach unexplored possibilities through lifecycle thinking of product-service 
offerings is broken down into Beginning of Life (BOL), Middle of Life (MOL) and 
End of Life (EOL) (Yang et al., 2017). In today’s literature we find EOL Management 

 
 
as a commonly presented challenge. Many manufacturers miss opportunities to 
create and capture value while products are in use or at the end of the life cycle, 
when they are recycled or discarded (Yang, Vladimirova and Evans, 2017). One 
reason is the vision of recycling as the go-to option and a lack of exploration of 
value uncaptured from used products (Yoon and Jang, 2006; Lee, Cooper and 
Hicks, 2010; Tong, Tao and Lifset, 2018). 
This study aims to explore the business possibilities of value uncaptured during 
the lifecycle stages of refrigerators.  The main question lies on how can circular 
business models support the creation of sustainable solutions for end-of-life 
refrigerators. The authors expect that the results of this study would find 
additional value to mere recycling of components through the creation of circular 
business models. The methodology we followed is a single-case study  (Yin, 2018) 
based on a recycling company through the utilisation of the Sustainable Value 
Analysis Tool for Value Creation, which allows to identify value uncaptured at each 
lifecycle stage (Yang et al., 2014). The Sustainable Value Analysis Tool for value 
creation was selected versus other tools due to its focus on transforming 
uncaptured value into sustainable value opportunities across the full life of a 
product. The previous use of this tool has helped a range of organizations to 
discover value opportunities both internally and externally.  
 
State of Practice 
 E-waste is one of the fastest growing streams of global waste. The production of 
large quantities of e-waste is a consequence of increased global consumption of 
electronic products, and an outcome to technological products obsolescence 
caused by fast-paced new technology developments (Widmer et al., 2005). 
Refrigerators fall under the definition of e-waste, meaning that their treatment 
must follow the Waste Electrical & Electronic (WEEE) regulations from EU 
(European Parliament and the and he Council Of The European Union, 2012).  
  
Today’s society is highly dependent on refrigerators which are ubiquitous for their 
various applications. The refrigerator sector has proved to grow steadily due to 
digitalization of their offerings and innovative technologies are now incorporated 
to this electric appliance (Deng, Wen and Zhao, 2008). Some companies have 
found and created a business case out of the management of EOL of these 
products. However, current documented solutions are limited to the recycling of 
individual refrigerator components.  
  

 
 
The recycling process begins with material separation. The component which 
retains the highest value is the refrigerators compressor due to a high constitution 
of copper. The retrieval and recycling of the copper represents a labour-intensive 
activity, which has led European recycling companies to export the compressors 
to other countries. This situation has created a growing market for scrap-copper. 
This process brings along undesired implications related to social aspects such as 
uncertainty in regulations for the strenuous labour required, and to environmental 
aspects as uncertainty in the appropriate handling of hazardous components and 
substances. These two elements contribute to the urgent call for a more 
sustainable long-term solution. (Streicher-Porte and Geering, 2010). 
 
Theoretical Background 
Literature identified under the concepts of “e-waste”, “business models” and 
“circular economy” has provided interesting insights on the challenges faced by 
previous studies on e-waste management. These challenges are mainly related to 
the allocation of business cases and the high level of complexity caused by data 
uncertainty within supply chains, which relates to quantity, quality and timing of 
production inputs (Bressanelli, Perona and Saccani, 2018). 
  
Recent contributions suggest that the lack of efficient collection and appropriate 
recycling infrastructure is one of the major challenges for closed-loop material 
cycles (Yoon and Jang, 2006). Documented cases have referred to vacuum 
cleaners, desktop computers, computer hard-disk drives, components in vehicles 
among others (Parajuly et al., 2016). A general conclusion in these cases is the 
understanding that any EOL product regarded as e-waste is not carefully handled, 
which reduces the possibility to identify and extract any remaining value by the 
time it reaches recycling facilities (Ghodrat et al., 2016). Previous case studies have 
shown that not many manufacturing companies have considered value at the EOL 
(Yang, Vladimirova and Evans, 2017). Further research has been suggested around 
the connection of product’s value losses to design features and understanding 
relationships between non-efficient separation and commonly used materials 
(Sousa-Zomer et al., 2018). However, there is still a gap in knowledge that helps 
companies evaluate solutions from life-cycle thinking to understanding and 
capturing value through circular business models (Jiao, 2017).  
 
 

 
 
Methodology 
Although industry and academia have shown growing interest in the integration 
of sustainability goal-supporting activities and design into their business approach, 
there is still a lack of understating around the allocation of industrial problems into 
sustainable solutions.  In this study, the authors explore alternative possibilities 
for the treatment of EOL refrigerators, which would allow to capture potentially 
unconsidered value. This attempt draws its sight to a circular business model as a 
means of creating balance between the three main sustainability pillars 
(economic, social and environmental aspects) (Nußholz, 2017). 
  
This research draws upon a single-case study  (Yin, 2018) approach with a recycling 
company. Our methodology includes a review and establishment of state-of-the 
art for value identification in waste-considered products. Also, empirical research 
is suggested through semi-structured interviews and workshop sessions which will 
be executed with members from a recycling company, refrigerator manufacturing 
companies, and EOL retrieval and handling companies.  
 
This will provide the possibility to perform value-mapping activities with the 
Sustainable Value Analysis Tool that allows cross-area stakeholders to understand 
and identify the magnitude of the current situation along with potential solutions 
(Yang, Vladimirova and Evans, 2017). This tool was selected due to the possibility 
that it offers to embed sustainability concerns in manufacturer’s offerings, EOL in 
particular (Yang et al., 2014) 
 
Expected results 
Through the application of the Sustainable Value Analysis Tool for Value creation 
in the industrial problem of refrigerator recycling, researchers will provide the 
company with a new set of value opportunities in the BOL, MOL and EOL of 
refrigerators. In future research we will explore the development of circular 
business models to help capture value opportunities in the EOL. This study 
generates implications for both research and practice, and aims to cover the gap 
between research-based tools that identify value  and companies who face this 
type of challenges in their operations, through the development of circular 
business models. 
 
 

 
 
Conclusions 
This study presents an industrial challenge and establishes that a sustainability-
based solution could be provided to the refrigerator recycling industry through the 
exploration of value through the complete lifecycle of the product. We suggest the 
application of the Sustainable Value Analysis Tool for Value creation. The further 
development of this exploratory study will evolve into a conceptual circular 
business model that allows the replicability of this case into similar challenges 
across different industrial sectors. 
 
Acknowledgements 
This work is funded by H2020 TRUST (Twinning for industrial sustainability) and 
VINNOVA (Swedish Agency for Innovation Systems). This work has been carried 
out within the Sustainable Production Initiative and the Production Area of 
Advance at Chalmers University of Technology. The support is gratefully 
acknowledged. 
Keywords 
Circular Business Models, E-waste Management, EOL Management, Refrigerator 
Recycling 
References 
Barquet, A. P. et al. (2016) ‘Sustainable product service systems - from concept 
creation to the detailing of a business model for a bicycle sharing system in 
Berlin’, in Seliger, G and Kohl, H and Mallon, J (ed.) 13TH GLOBAL 
CONFERENCE ON SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING - DECOUPLING GROWTH 
FROM 
RESOURCE 
USE. 
(Procedia 
CIRP), 
pp. 
524–529. 
doi: 
10.1016/j.procir.2016.01.127. 
Bressanelli, G., Perona, M. and Saccani, N. (2018) ‘Challenges in supply chain 
redesign for the Circular Economy : a literature review and a multiple case 
study’, (November). doi: 10.1080/00207543.2018.1542176. 
Deng, J. J., Wen, X. F. and Zhao, Y. M. (2008) ‘Evaluating the treatment of E-waste 
- a case study of discarded refrigerators’, Journal of China University of 
Mining and Technology, 18(3), pp. 454–458. doi: 10.1016/S1006-
1266(08)60094-2. 

 
 
European Parliament and the and he Council Of The European Union (2012) 
‘Directive 2012/19/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on 
waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE)’, Official Journal of the 
European Union, 13(2), pp. 1–24. doi: 10.3000/19770677.L_2012.197.eng. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D. and Evans, S. (2018) ‘Sustainable business model 
innovation: A review’, Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 198, pp. 
401–416. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.240. 
Ghodrat, M. et al. (2016) ‘Techno economic analysis of electronic waste processing 
through black copper smelting route’, Journal of Cleaner Production. 
Elsevier Ltd, 126, pp. 178–190. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.03.033. 
Jiao, N. (2017) Business Models for Second-life Electric Vehicle Battery Systems. 
doi: 10.17863/cam.25955. 
Lee, S. J., Cooper, J. and Hicks, G. (2010) ‘Characterization of monitor recycling in 
Seattle, Washington’, Regional Environmental Change, 10(4), pp. 349–369. 
doi: 10.1007/s10113-009-0106-8. 
Nußholz, J. L. K. (2017) ‘Circular business models: Defining a concept and framing 
an emerging research field’, Sustainability (Switzerland), 9(10), pp. 14–17. 
doi: 10.3390/su9101810. 
Parajuly, K. et al. (2016) ‘End-of-life resource recovery from emerging electronic 
products e A case study of robotic vacuum cleaners’, Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 
Elsevier 
Ltd, 
137, 
pp. 
652–666. 
doi: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.07.142. 
Prendeville, S. and Bocken, N. (2017) ‘Sustainable Business Models through 
Service Design’, Procedia Manufacturing. The Author(s), 8(October 2016), 
pp. 292–299. doi: 10.1016/j.promfg.2017.02.037. 
Sousa-Zomer, T. T. et al. (2018) ‘Cleaner production as an antecedent for circular 
economy paradigm shift at the micro-level: Evidence from a home appliance 
manufacturer’, Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 185, pp. 740–
748. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.03.006. 
Streicher-Porte, M. and Geering, A.-C. (2010) ‘Opportunities and Threats of 
Current E-Waste Collection System in China: A Case Study from Taizhou with 
a Focus on Refrigerators, Washing Machines, and Televisions’, 
Environmental 
Engineering 
Science, 
27(1), 
pp. 
29–36. 
doi: 
10.1089/ees.2009.0134. 
Tong, X., Tao, D. and Lifset, R. (2018) ‘Varieties of business models for post-
consumer recycling in China’, Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 
170, pp. 665–673. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.09.032. 
Widmer, R. et al. (2005) ‘Global perspectives on e-waste’, Environmental Impact 
Assessment 
Review, 
25(5 
SPEC. 
ISS.), 
pp. 
436–458. 
doi: 
10.1016/j.eiar.2005.04.001. 

 
 
Yang, M. et al. (2014) ‘Sustainable value analysis tool for value creation’, Asian J. 
of 
Management 
Science 
and 
Applications, 
1(4), 
p. 
312. 
doi: 
10.1504/AJMSA.2014.070649. 
Yang, M. et al. (2017) ‘Value uncaptured perspective for sustainable business 
model innovation’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 140(April 2018), pp. 
1794–1804. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.07.102. 
Yang, M., Vladimirova, D. and Evans, S. (2017) ‘Creating and Capturing Value 
Through Sustainability: The Sustainable Value Analysis ToolA new tool helps 
companies discover opportunities to create and capture value through 
sustainability.’, Research Technology Management. Taylor & Francis, 60(3), 
pp. 30–39. doi: 10.1080/08956308.2017.1301001. 
Yin, R. K. (2018) Case Study Research and Applications: Design and Methods. 6th 
Editio. SAGE Publications Inc. 
Yoon, H. and Jang, Y. C. (2006) ‘The practice and challenges of electronic waste 
recycling in Korea with emphasis on extended producer responsibility (EPR)’, 
IEEE International Symposium on Electronics and the Environment. IEEE, 
2006, pp. 326–330. doi: 10.1109/ISEE.2006.1650085. 
  
 
 

 
 
Creating Value from Waste 
Lessons Learned for Circular Innovation Networks 
 
Karen L Janssen1,*, Lies van Dobbenburg1 
 
1Centre of Expertise for Sustainable Business, 
Avans University of Applied Science, The Netherlands 
 
*kl.janssen@avans.nl 
 
Abstract  
In a circular economy, organizations search for business models that aim for 
product’s longevity and closing material loops. For this, radical and systemic 
innovation is needed, on a technical level as well as on business level. Although 
technologies are promising, the rate of successful initiatives is relatively low. 
Organizations struggle with developing profitable business cases for these 
valuable products based on raw materials out of ‘waste streams’. First they need 
to identify residual flows and then search for profitable sales channels. We 
explored obstacles and challenges that organizations encounter, while developing 
these innovative circular products and at the same time not being able to conquer 
the market. Using the Value Hill concept, we identify challenges and obstacles in 
the pre-use, the in-use and the post-use phase. We elaborate on the lessons 
learned (*) Collaboration is necessary, organizations need to align strategies in a 
circular system of intertwined business models; (*) there is need for new circular 
business models, which value social and ecological impact, but always in an 
economic viable way; (*) storytelling contributes to creating awareness and makes 
organizations eager to join the development of innovative circular products’(*) 
organizations need to involve all stakeholders in the marketing activities of 
innovative circular products, including intermediaries, business partners and the 
end-customer and (*) the network needs to be orchestrated by a motivated driver, 
since upscaling the initiatives needs a lot of efforts and alignment between 
partners with diverse ambitions. 

 
 
Keywords 
sustainability, multiple value creation, circular economy, business models, value 
systems, story telling 
1. Introduction 
The concept of a circular economy is recognized by both academics and 
practitioners as proposition to face today’s societal, economic and environmental 
challenges. Organizations are looking for ways to optimize social and 
environmental values, while maintaining economic viability. For this, radical and 
systemic innovation is needed, on the technical level as well as on the business 
level. Organizations search for business models that aim for product’s longevity 
and closing material loops. For instance, the Dutch textile sector offers great 
opportunities for reusing products and materials. Annually, 75 million kilo textile 
is collected, while still approximately 135 million kilo is disappearing as residual 
waste. At least 65% of the post-consumer textiles can perfectly be recycled. It can 
be processed into a wide range of products, in low-value materials, such as 
cleaning cloths, mops and blankets as well as high-quality materials, through yarn 
development for new textile applications, for isolation or acoustic panels and via 
heat and pressure techniques into plate material. Another example: water 
treatment companies are increasingly focusing on recovering energy and raw 
materials from waste water. By placing fine sieves, toilet paper and other sludge 
material can be removed from the water. This leads to energy savings in the water 
purification process, and the residue can serve as a raw material for different 
applications. Although technologies are promising, the rate of successful 
initiatives is relatively low. Organizations struggle in finding profitable business 
cases for these valuable products based on raw materials out of ‘waste streams’. 
Companies need to identify the right residual flows and sales channels. Our 
research focuses on the obstacles and challenges that organizations encounter, 
while developing innovative circular products, but at the same time not being able 
to conquer the market. 
2. Creating value from waste 
Circular economy 
Circular economy is defined as “an economic and industrial system where material 
loops are closed and slowed, and in which every chain in the systems creates and 

 
 
captures value”, (Ellen McArthur Foundation, 2015). An important boundary 
condition for realizing a circular economy includes the development of new 
business models. The concept of circularity has been conceptualized by Kirchherr 
et al. (2017) who indicate that circular systems always include efforts to Reduce 
(reducing raw material use), Reuse (reuse products and components) and Recycle 
(reuse of raw materials) residues .  
The urge for this new economy is high. Worldwide, the use of raw materials has 
increased eightfold in the past century. The richest countries are now using on 
average ten times more raw materials than the poorest countries. The increase in 
use of raw materials has been driven in recent decades by income growth as well 
as by population growth. The UN has established 17 Sustainable Development 
Goals as a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all by 2030 
(https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/). 
They 
address 
the 
global 
challenges the world is facing, including those related to poverty, inequality, 
climate, environmental degradation, prosperity, and peace and justice. The 
circular economy is indicated as one of the important conditions to promote 
prosperity while protecting the planet. 
More and more organizations are making progress to organize their business at a 
circular manner, but still circular initiatives are limited to pioneers who are active 
on a small scale. Those pioneers recognize the benefits of closing loops and 
improving resource efficiency, like cost savings due to re-using material, creating 
competitive advantages and entering new markets (e.g. Kalmykova et al., 2017; 
Lieder and Rashid, 2016; Rizos et al., 2016). Nevertheless, many are still struggling 
with a lack of a framework explaining how companies willing to become circular 
adapt their existing business model or create a new one (Antikainen and Valkokari, 
2016). 
Value Creating System 
Operating in a circular economy requires not only a proper management of raw 
materials and products, but also calls for new partnerships and business models 
(Bocken et al., 2013; Schaltegger et al., 2016). Circularity cannot be reached in 
isolation, thinking in value networks is the starting point. This transition requires 
a radical systematic change (Jonker et al., 2014), in which organizations have to 
take the effects of their own business and the direct effects on its suppliers, 
customers, and other stakeholders into account, and vice versa. The key elements 
of a circular system (1) concentrate on creating value for a broader range of 

 
 
stakeholders and (2) take into consideration the benefits from societal and 
environmental perspectives (Boons & Ludeke-Freund, 2013) in an economic 
context. Innovation processes create more leverage for change than other 
processes within the organization. Hence, innovation can be a well-suited mean 
to trigger upcycling waste streams in a circular system. These innovation processes 
outreach collaboration in a chain, in which each chain sub-optimizes its own 
processes, it requires decisive and conscious sharing of resources and risks by all 
stakeholders, and transparency and trust are essential (Janssen et al., 2018). 
Business models are often explained as the basis of how companies create, 
transfer, and capture value according to their internal activities and relationships 
with stakeholders, among which suppliers and customers (e.g. Zott et al., 2011; 
Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2013). A circular business model is defined as the 
rationale to create, deliver and capture value with and within closed material 
loops (Mentink, 2014). Circular business models are by nature networked: they 
require collaboration, communication and coordination within complex networks 
of various and different actors and stakeholders They address the need to adapt 
to a changing business environment, causing a necessity to adjust value chains at 
a business eco-system level. Valente (2012: 586) explains that “what is sustained 
is a result of a complex interactive and idiosyncratic process where firms and their 
stakeholders build cognitive complexity within a network system in a way that 
creates synergistic value creation”. He suggests that, for a ‘sustain-centric 
ambition’, organizations in value networks have to collaborate in such way that it 
includes all relevant organizations and embraces all related systems (inclusion), 
understands all causes and effects of these systems in interrelationships 
(interconnectedness) and any position of privilege by “a fair distribution of 
resources, opportunities, basic needs, and property rights” (equity). 
Organizations need to reconsider how they can maximize their contribution to the 
product and materials when reducing the usage of natural resources and creating 
positive societal and environmental impact (Kraaijenhagen et al., 2016). By 
working together, companies in a value chain can increase their positive impact 
on all players, society and the environment. Value creation requires truly joining 
forces in which value is created simultaneously. For the alignment of activities in 
a value network, organizations need to interact in a more synchronized fashion, 
which make inter-organizational collaboration crucial and at the same time 
complex. Companies say: “technically we know what we have to do, but how do 
we convince others, the entire chain of suppliers and customers? We are 
interested in why and how some organization are able to innovate to a circular 

 
 
economy while others face major setbacks. Circular economy is defined as “an 
economic and industrial system where material 
3. Method 
Research design 
This submission aims to answer the following question: What are -and how do 
organizations deal with- obstacles and challenges while creating value from 
waste? We use an explorative case study approach to gain insights into the 
difficulties and practices organizations use to deal with them. 
We started our research together with Noble Environmental Benelux (Noble), who 
has developed a technology that uses only pressure and heat to convert any 
cellulose waste stream residue into ECOR-plates. First batches have been created 
from waste including coffee grounds, spent beer hops, textiles and sieve residues. 
Panels have resulted in a range of materials or products, like retail graphics, trade 
show displays, decorative walls and hangers. The organization explores ways for 
upscaling business. We have also explored other initiatives that aim to use new 
technologies to convert waste streams into new products. In this paper, we 
elaborate on five cases, which we will explain in the next section. 
Interviews were conducted with a broad range of stakeholders of different value 
networks and lasted one to one and a half hour. We conducted interviews with 
directors and sustainability experts. Data was collected on the vision towards 
sustainability, current sustainable efforts, value propositions, multiple value 
creation and collaboration in a value system. It was of crucial importance to gather 
information on the nature of their practices to generate data on the consequences 
of their actions and to identify ways how to improve their practices. We also 
organized several workshops (15 groups of four to six people) with business 
students and experts (mixed and separate) to discuss the value proposition of two 
of these cases. We used the Business Innovation Kit (UXBerlin) to explore, discuss 
and define potential value propositions. 
Cases 
Because of the expected increase in population and wealth, demand for consumer 
goods and services will grow. In order to produce these goods, many more natural 
and material resources will be needed. Our cases focus on the use of natural fiber 

 
 
residual flows and post-consumer textiles as raw material for different markets. 
The organizations search for opportunities to develop business propositions for 
these circular products. 
‘Roadside-grass as packaging’: The Dutch Paper and Cardboard Knowledge Centre 
and the Branch Association for Organic Residual flows are interested in new Fiber 
applications. The route of converting natural grass as raw material for specific 
packaging products has been proved. For roadside grass, there are challenges. 
Stakeholders indicated that besides the challenge of the quality of the materials 
(large variety of types of plant parts, existing macro and micro pollution) and 
strength of the packaging, one at least as great challenge lies in the agreements 
and coordination among partners and stakeholders. 
‘Paddy straw as promotional material’: Indian rice farmers burn their rice fields 
when the rice is harvested (paddy straw). This is the quickest and cheapest way to 
start planting new rice seeds and growing new rice. Open-field burning of rice 
straw does effectively remove large volumes of biomass and it helps to control 
unwanted weeds and a variety of unwanted pests and diseases. However, this also 
causes air pollution, which is a danger to human health and environment. Noble 
is looking for possibilities to turn this paddy straw into non-toxic, biodegradable 
and re-usable ECOR-plates that are suitable for the furniture or packaging 
industry. This would also be beneficial for Indian farmers, who could gain 
additional income by getting paid for selling it to Noble. Noble explores the added 
value of paddy straw plates as material for Indian wedding boxes, displays for 
retail and company gifts compared to current offers. 
‘Textile plates as store interior’: The textile industry is one of the most polluting 
industries in the world. By recycling and reusing textiles, the use of new raw 
materials can be reduced, which results in less impact on the environment. 
Wearable collected clothing is currently resold on the second-hand market by 
commercial or charity companies. On the one hand, non-wearable textile is 
demolished and fiberized, whereas the quality of the fiber is retained and new 
yarns can be developed for new clothing. On the other hand, recycled textiles are 
used for isolation material in the automotive industry or are burned as waste. 
Together with fiberizing organizations, Noble explores the potential of textile 
ECOR-plates as interior in stores. 
‘Sieve material as soil protection': The public water sector is using large 
installations for waste water treatment to generate clean drinking water. In this 

 
 
cleaning process, lots of sieve material is generated, which is transported to a 
central location in the south of The Netherlands were it is treated as waste. By 
better sieving this material, the water sector generates extra capacity in the waste 
water treatment installation resulting in less energy costs. If this waste stream can 
be used in new products, less costs have to be made for handling this waste or 
even income can be generated. Waste processors become raw material suppliers. 
Together with the Water Boards and the construction sector, Noble is looking for 
potential customer segments with interests in ECOR-plates based on sieve 
material. They explore the use of these plates as bank protection, acoustic road 
screens or inhouse (office) use like furniture. 
‘Combined isolating roof panel’: In the construction sector the use of isolation 
(temperature and sound) material is growing because of global warming and 
worldwide climate targets. The building sector askes for material that is easy to 
handle with a good price. More and more architects prescribe the use of ecological 
material when designing a house or building. In addition, more and more end users 
are willing to pay a small amount extra for sustainable materials. There are already 
good ecological isolation materials on the market, which are successful. One of 
them is made of textile waste. This organization is contributing to ecological and 
social impact because the sorting of the textile is done by employees with a 
distance to the labor market. The isolation plates can be made of textile waste too. 
Noble explores if this isolation material can be connected with ECOR-plates 
(textile) into one panel, which is easy to handle for the constructors. Both 
organizations are interested in this new opportunity, which will create ecological 
and social impact. 
4. Results 
Value proposition 
A business model describes very clearly how an organization creates, delivers and 
captures value. We use the Value Proposition Method of Osterwalder et al. (2014) 
to illustrate our findings of each case. By addressing the relationship between 
customer segments (clarify the customer understanding ) and value propositions 
(intentions to create value) in the so-called Value Proposition Canvas, we focus on 
the ‘circular offer’ to the market, which is in a circular economy created by 
multiple organizations. The value proposition (square) is divided into products & 
services, pain relievers and gain creators. Pain relievers describe how products and 
services can alleviate customer pains. Gain creators describe how the products 

 
 
and services benefit the customers. The circle divides the customer segment into 
customer jobs, gains and pains. Customer jobs describe what customers want to 
achieve in their work and private life. Gains are about the results that customers 
want to see or the concrete benefits that they are striving for. Pains concern 
undesirable results, risks and annoyances. 
 
Figure 1 The value proposition canvas  
‘Roadside-grass as packaging’: There are several technological developments to 
upcycle roadside-grass into high quality products. Piloting organizations aim to 
earn money in the frond-end of the chain, while reducing waste at the end of the 
chain. Respondents have identified the packaging market as potential sales 
channel. Although technologies seem promising on a small scale, organizations 
face challenges in upscaling these initiatives. Difficulties relate to achieving quality 
standards (large variety of types of plant parts, existing macro and micro 
pollution), agreeing on shared investments, allocating revenues and costs. New 
cracking technologies are explored to make it possible to gain value from these 
separate fractions, whose revenues then can contribute to the investment cost of 
the upcycle process. Also legal aspects of roadside grass (waste versus raw 
material) and reducing logistics are a point of attention. 
The value network is represented by SMEs who contribute to the upcycle process 
of roadside grass as raw material for the packaging industry, including biomass 
providers and processors of biomass fractions in the paper industry. The value 

 
 
proposition for the paper industry focusses on finding alternative fibers for the 
production of paper, since wood is expected to be scarce in the future. To develop 
a viable business model, the value of preserving biodiversity and conserving 
natural resources should be taken into account in the business model, next to 
economic value. 
 
Figure 2 The value proposition canvas ‘Roadside-grass as packaging’ 
‘Paddy straw as promotional material’: Noble has the ambition to contribute to a 
better environment by reducing burning of paddy straw and to contribute to 
prosperity by creating jobs in India. One of the potential sales channels Noble 
explores is the use of paddy straw as input for developing ECOR-plates for 
promotional material, like wedding boxes and pop-up displays. 
Findings indicate that sustainability is not on the top of the mind of the distributors 
of displays, the Indian market is not yet asking for sustainable alternatives. In fact, 
cardboard displays are used once and then destroyed. A sustainable advantage of 
ECOR-plates is the possibility of re-using the material. However, respondents 
empathize that reusing products is seen as an additional logistic operations which 
makes it unnecessary complex. Price is the common driver, even if that means that 
concessions need to be made on quality (bearing strength, life span). Some 
respondents expect that ECOR-displays will have potential for brands that use 
sustainable impact in their marketing strategy and to increase sustainable brand 
image. Circularity can then be part of the story of the product. 

 
 
In India, the invitation to a wedding always includes a wedding box. Indian people 
find it important to customize this box, which is often luxurious designed and 
contains gifts and program details. Although there are most of the time over 200 
optional boxes per store, people really want to make it extraordinary and special. 
If Noble wants to compete in this market, the material has to be strong and should 
not transform over time. The product has to last at least 6 months (time between 
invitation and wedding) or even longer, if the guests want to use the box to store 
jewelry items for instance. To enter the market, respondents think that Noble 
needs to open an store, where people can personalize their wedding boxes and 
choose items to complete them or Noble should collaborate with local distributers 
who care for the content. ECOR-plates can easily be customized with printing and 
bending techniques, which is a pre. The price should be similar or cheaper than 
current alternatives. Since people are not asking for it, the story needs to be told 
to accelerate personal motives. 
 
Figure 3 The value proposition canvas ‘Paddy straw as promotional material’ 
‘Textile plates as store interior’: Noble is experimenting with post-consumer 
textile to develop ECOR-plates . They explore the potential use as store interior, 
like fitting rooms and counter desks, or to make hangers and packaging boxes. We 
explored which social, ecological and economic aspects are important for stores, 
brand owners and trade associations. 

 
 
Findings indicate that organizations feel pressure from the government and NGOs 
for dealing with the large amount of post-consumer textile. They look for ways to 
re-use or upcycle textile. Some organizations have set targets to be completely 
circular in the future, for instance by targeting exclusive use of recycled or other 
sustainable raw materials for all products in 2030. We found that the clothing 
sector mainly focuses on optimization of the beginning of the value chain; 
collecting and recycling of textiles is not seen as a priority. This is due to the lack 
of a financially feasible and workable logistic system and that absence of a final 
(sale) destination. The application of textile in ECOR-plates is endorsed as good 
alternative only when it is not possible to use textile fibers for making new yarn 
with sufficient quality. Complementary, using this waste stream as input will also 
decrease the use of other raw material as wood, for store interior, which will 
contribute to the prevention of resource scarcity. Some respondents have doubts 
about the quality insurance and making agreements with other partners on 
investments and allocation of cost and revenues in the system. Other respondents 
see benefits of ECOR-plates to be used in pop-up stores and to easily change colors 
and themes of the walls. 
Textile producers acknowledge that they could have an informative and 
stimulating role in sustainable clothing concepts. They feel that telling the circular 
story will be effectual, because awareness for upcycling textile waste is created. 
When the textile fiber is still visible in the interior, it becomes concrete and 
tangible, and thereby contributing to a sense of recognition and connection. Thus, 
on the one hand, storytelling increases consumer awareness and can stimulate a 
positive change in sustainable behavior of consumers, on the other hand it 
positively influences the reputation of fast fashion brands. However, one 
respondents emphases that story telling is a temporarily solution. In the end, the 
circular systems needs to become the standard, as it is nowadays for class 
recycling. No one thinks it is special to pour wine from a bottle of recycled glass.  

 
 
 
Figure 4 The value proposition canvas ‘textile ‘plates as store interior’ 
‘Sieve material as soil protection': ECOR-plates are a good replacement of wood 
and synthetics and they are light weighted, strong and biodegradable. We 
investigated the financial and ecological opportunities and obstacles when using 
ECOR-plates as soil protection compared to current used materials. The current 
materials often contain plastic that has to be removed from the soil after a period 
of time. The ECOR-plates are currently tested in the ground to establish how fast 
it dissolves, the degree of solubility and the influence on soil strength. There are 
still many uncertainties. The price has to be compared with the traditional soil 
protection materials. Respondents indicate that the social and ecological impact 
of ECOR-plates needs to be explained to the market. Furthermore, other markets 
needs to be explored, since a bigger market than only soil protection has to be 
selected to generate enough impact because the amount of sieving material is 
very large. It has to be defined what role the Water Boards will play in the 
production of plates, in relation to the constructors. More research is needed on 
how these questions can to be solved in collaboration with Noble and the Water 
Board; and most likely together with some selected constructors of soil protectors. 
 

 
 
 
Figure 5 The value proposition canvas ‘Sieve material as soil protection’ 
‘Combined isolating roof panel’: ECOR-plates can serve as isolation plate when it 
is connected to (textile) isolation material. We investigated the characteristics of 
this new isolating roof panel made of textile and ECOR-plates, that can assure the 
releasing on the market within 5 years. The soft isolation material is made of 
collected textiles. Combining this material with a solid ECOR-plate, this combined 
isolating roof panel can easily be secured inside the roof of a building. The 
combined panel would totally be of ecological material. Findings indicate that the 
ECOR-plates have to be tested on fire resistance: the isolation material is fire 
resistant, for the ECOR-plates this cannot be guaranteed yet. New houses need 
material passports, the values of the roof plates need to be captured for this 
system. Also a competitive market price has to be set: the construction sector is 
quite price-oriented. Respondents think that the price will always be a bit higher 
than the price for the traditional product, however, they feel that the isolation 
quality is better and the handling is easier if the two are fastened into one 
combined panel. Challenges that are indicated are the return logistics, it has to be 
guaranteed that the panel can be returned after it’s usage: this is already the case 
for the isolation material at the moment. More research is needed to define who 
is going to make the combined product, partners need to negotiate the next steps 
in the process. There has to be a partner that ‘takes up the glove’ and bring this 
circular innovation on the market. Agreements need to be made on responsibility 
to the customer, the intermediaries and the constructors. 

 
 
 
Figure 6 The value proposition canvas ‘Combined insulatin  g roof panel’ 
4. Conclusion and Discussion 
Obstacles and challenges 
We use the concept of the Value Hill (Achterberg et al., 2016) to elaborate on the 
obstacles and challenges. The Value Hill is a circular business strategy tool that 
provides companies with an understanding of how to position their business in a 
circular context and to develop future strategies for a circular economy. It provides 
an overview of the circular partners and collaborations essential to the success of 
a circular value network. The Value Hill proposes a categorization based on the 
lifecycle phases of a product: pre-, in- and post-use of a product. The pre-use 
phase (uphill) is the phase before use, in which value is added to the material in 
different steps (eg. mining, production, distribution). The second phase is the in-
use phase of a product (top of the mountain) and here the value is at its highest. 
And the third phase is the post-use phase (downhill), where the product loses 
value. In a circular economy, the value is recaptured by feeding the complete 
product or its components back into a previous phase (e.g. production or directly 
back into the use‐phase). In every phase different business activities take place. 

 
 
 
Figure 7 Business model categories mapped on the value hill (Achterberg et al., 
2016) 
In the pre-use phase, organizations need to look in different ways at waste‐
streams: not by focusing on 'getting rid of garbage as cheap as possible' but by 
creating an equal playfield in which players are committed to partnership for a 
longer time. Tensions arise from diversity or disagreeing on specific matters, such 
as strategic goals, organizational cultures, and adjacent competences. In the in-
use phase, organizations face difficulties in pricing the circular products compared 
to new products and explaining the added values of circular products. The quality-
level of the circular product should be met or exceeded. Other challenges are 
prolonging of the use phase, by optimizing re-use, like for instance with changing 
store interior or displays. In the post-use phase, challenges are connected to 
aspects of logistics (tracking, collecting and returning waste streams) and legal 
restrictions, like gaining permits for processing waste streams. Recycling of waste 
streams into plates is a suitable and innovative solution for creating value, but only 
when re-using the material into original products related application is not 
possible anymore. To capture the value from used products, collaboration within 
the value network is essential. There is a need for coordination of activities, 
information flows, material flows, energy flows and services. 

 
 
Lessons learned 
Collaboration is necessary, organizations need to align strategies in a circular 
system of intertwined business models. Collaboration is necessary and difficult, 
specifically when it goes beyond the boundaries of business. Experts and partners 
in the value network need to align strategies and activities when designing, 
initiating, catalyzing and capitalizing the value. It is important to integrate the 
different perspectives of stakeholders into a collaborative system. Stakeholders 
need to define together which value networks can be connected to complement 
organizations business models in the value system. This idea of a ‘networked 
business models’ is in line with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation way of circular 
value creation ‘cycle 3. The power of cascades: creating new combinations of 
resources and material components, and the purchasing of upcycled waste 
streams’. 
There is need for new circular business models. Circular business models should 
value different types of impact, but always in an economic viable way. By closing 
material loops and using waste streams as useful inputs to other products and 
processes, demand reduces primary raw material use and resource depletion. 
Although most markets are still price driven, frontrunners show examples of new 
business models like leasing, products as a service and cooperation models. 
Regional processing of waste and applying the circular product in the domain of 
the waste supplier contribute to the success of the business case. Bocken et al., 
(2016) explored product design and business model strategies for a circular 
economy. They differentiate between slowing and closing business model 
strategies. Slowing strategies are the ‘access and performance model’, ‘extending 
product value’, ‘classic long life’ and ‘encourage sufficiency’. Closing strategies like 
‘extending resource value’ and ‘industrial symbiosis’. 
Storytelling contributes to creating awareness and makes organizations eager to 
join the development of innovative circular products. Storytelling is “the process 
of developing and delivering an organization’s message by using narration about 
people, the organization, the past, visions for the future, social bonding and work 
itself in order to create a new point of view or reinforce an opinion or behavior” 
(Gill, 2014 pg. 3). Frontrunners need to tell their stories, tell how they went beyond 
all the hassle of ‘how to get through it’. The stories prove that the system can 
work. This contributes to the creation of value systems and accelerates the 
transition to a circular economy. This is in line with findings of Pulizzi (2012), who 
emphasizes that storytelling is becoming an increasingly important means of 

 
 
communication for companies because it relates to all stakeholders and thereby 
improves the reputation of the brand both internally and externally. 
Involve all stakeholders in the marketing activities of innovative circular 
products, including intermediaries, business partners and the end-customer. 
When it comes to creating sales, all stakeholders in the value system depend on 
the demand of the end customer, the so called derived demand. All intermediaries 
need to commit themselves to sustainable innovation and should be convinced to 
participate. For example, the ‘combined isolating roof panel’ should be marketed 
to hardware stores, contractor and homeowner; the ‘sieve material as soil 
protection’ to water board, contractors and municipalities. 
The network needs to be orchestrated by a motivated driver. Upscaling the 
initiatives needs a lot of efforts and alignment between partners with diverse 
ambitions. A central (new) entity or person should take the lead and to keep track 
of the big picture, otherwise the initiatives fades. Orchestration is defined by 
Dhanaraj and Parkhe (2006) as a coherent set of deliberate actions to create value 
with and extract value from a network, and consists of directing, influencing and 
coordinating activities. This can be done by the organization that has the most 
drive to bringing the product to the market or a new entity established by all value 
adding partners, but someone needs to take the lead, otherwise the market will 
not pick it up. Orchestrating practices helps to create a fair deal in the network 
and ensures the long-term viability of the network, which show to be important 
to manage circularity in innovation processes (Janssen and Stel, 2017). 
4. Practical implication and contribution 
The paper aims to contribute to accelerating the transition to a circular economy 
by identifying sales opportunities for waste streams and by developing circular 
business models, in which different partners work together in a value network. An 
area both of interest of academics and practitioners. By gaining insights into the 
obstacles and challenges, we add lessons learned to this relative new academic 
debate. Organizations can adjust their innovation practices and collaboration 
efforts in order to tackle the difficulties. Organizations acknowledge the benefits 
of circular systems to balance impact from economic, ecological and social value. 
Findings serve as inspiration for organizations to look at the benefits of 
transferring cost items related to waste disposal as opportunity to yield money by 
developing circular products. Besides the economic benefits, organizations can 
realize environmental and social impact, by reducing waste, energy and 

 
 
developing greener products. Storytelling creates awareness for innovative 
circular products by sharing viable and tangible value proposition. 
Acknowledgement 
The research is made possible with a SiA kiem VANG / CE grants of the Dutch 
association ‘Regieorgaan Praktijkgericht onderzoek’. We also would like to take 
this opportunity to thank the organizations for participating in our research. And 
the graduation students of the Centre of Expertise for Sustainable Business for 
their help in data collection and reporting on their assignment. 
References 
Achterberg, E., Hinfelaar, J., Bocken, N., 2016. Master Circular Business with the 
Value Hill. White Paper, p. 18. Report available at: http://www.circle-
economy.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/finance-white-paper-
20160923.pdf 
Antikainen, M., & Valkokari, K. (2016). Framework for sustainable circular business 
model innovation. Technology Innovation Management Review, 6(7), 5-12. 
Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2013). A value mapping tool for 
sustainable business modelling. Corporate Governance, 13(5), 482-497. 
Bocken, N., de Pauw, I., Bakker, C., & van der Grinten, B. (2016). Product design 
and business model strategies for a circular economy, Journal of Industrial 
and Production Engineering, 33:5, 308-320. 
Boons, F., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013). Business models for sustainable innovation: 
state-of-the-art and steps towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 45, 9-19. 
Dhanaraj, C., & Parkhe, A. (2006). Orchestrating innovation networks. Academy of 
Management Review, 31(3), 659-669. 
Ellen McArthur Foundation (2015). Towards a circular economy: business rationale 
for an accelerated transition. Ellen McArthur Foundation. 
Gill, R. (2011). An integrative review of storytelling: Using corporate stories to 
strengthen employee engagement and internal and external reputation. 
Prism, Volume 8(1). 
Janssen, K. L. and Stel, F.G. (2017). Orchestrating partnerships in a circular 
economy – a working method for SMEs. The XXVIII ISPIM Innovation 
Conference “Composing the Innovation Symphony”, Austria, Vienna, 18-21 
June, 2017 

 
 
Janssen, K. L., Blazevic, V., & Lauche, K. (2018). Integrating CSR in Innovation Value 
Networks. In Innovation Management and Corporate Social Responsibility, 
Springer, Cham. 75-97. 
Kalmykova, Y., Sadagopan, M., & Rosado, L. (2018). Circular economy–From 
review of theories and practices to development of implementation tools. 
Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 135, 190-201. 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D., & Hekkert, M. (2017). Conceptualizing the circular 
economy: An analysis of 114 definitions. Resources, Conservation and 
Recycling, 127, 221-232.  
Kraaijenhagen, C., van Oppen, C., & Bocken, N. (2016). Circular Business: 
Collaborate and Circulate. Chris Bernasco en Lucy Goodchild-van Hilten. 
Lieder, M., & Rashid, A. (2016). Towards circular economy implementation: a 
comprehensive review in context of manufacturing industry. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 115, 36-51. 
Mentink, B. (2014). Circular business model innovation: a process framework and 
a tool for business model innovation in a circular economy. Doctoral thesis, 
Delft University of Technology. 
Osterwalder, A., Pigneur, Y., Bernarda, G., & Smith, A. (2014). Value proposition 
design: How to create products and services customers want. John Wiley & 
Sons. 
Osterwalder, A., & Pigneur, Y. (2013). Designing business models and similar 
strategic objects: the contribution of IS. Journal of the Association for 
Information Systems, 14(5), 237. 
Pulizzi, J. (2012). The rise of storytelling as the new marketing. Publishing Research 
Quarterly, 28(2), 116-123. 
Reike, D., Vermeulen, W. J., & Witjes, S. (2018). The circular economy: New or 
refurbished as CE 3.0?—Exploring controversies in the conceptualization of 
the circular economy through a focus on history and resource value 
retention options. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 135, 246-264. 
Rizos, V., Behrens, A., Van Der Gaast, W., Hofman, E., Ioannou, A., Kafyeke, T., 
Topi, C. (2016). Implementation of circular economy business models by 
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs): Barriers and enablers. 
Sustainability, 8(11), 1212. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Hansen, E. G. (2016). Business models for 
sustainability: A co-evolutionary analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, 
innovation, and transformation. Organization & Environment, 29(3), 264-
289. 
UXBerlin, BusinessInnovationKit, http://www.uxberlin.com/businessinnovationkit 
Valente, M. (2012). Theorizing firm adoption of sustaincentrism. Organization 
Studies, 33(4), 563-591. 

 
 
Zott, C., Amit, R., & Massa, L. (2011). The business model: recent developments 
and future research. Journal of Management, 37(4), 1019-1042. 
 

 
 
Critical success factors for circular 
business models within the 
agricultural sector 
 
Mechthild Donner1, Anne Verniquet2, Agnès de Souza2, Jan Broeze3, 
Jim Groot3, Katrin Kayser4, Romane Gohier1, Hugo de Vries5 
1INRA – French National Institute for Agricultural Research, UMR 
MOISA, Montpellier, France; 2SOFIES – Solutions for Industrial 
Ecosystems S.A., Geneva, Switzerland; 3Wageningen Food & Biobased 
Research, Department Food Technology, Wageningen, The 
Netherlands; 4IBBK – Fachgruppe Biogas GmbH, Kirchberg/Jagst, 
Germany; 5INRA – French National Institute for Agricultural Research, 
UMR IATE, Montpellier, France 
 
Abstract 
In the transition from a linear, ‘take-make-dispose’ economy to a sustainable 
usage of all renewable resources in circular or cascading ways, stakeholders’ 
strategies striving for value creation are adapted. Implementing a circular 
economy requires a change at a system level, involving all actors of value chains 
within diverse economic sectors. At an enterprise level, innovative business 
models are needed that offer market opportunities for new products. Circular 
business models deal with the question of how to create, deliver and capture value 
with and within closed material loops. We aim to understand under which 
conditions new business models within the agricultural sector successfully 
contribute to a circular economy. 33 cases have been studied and semi-structured 
interviews have been performed, in order to investigate critical success factors. 
Results show that various success factors exist, which can be grouped in five 
categories: (1) technical and logistic, (2) economic, financial and marketing, (3) 
organisational and spatial, (4) institutional and legal, and (5) environmental, social 
and cultural factors. Findings indicate that the transition to a circular economy in 
the agricultural sector let individual business models evolve towards dynamic and 
integrated business models in which the macro-environment sets the boundary 

 
 
conditions for successful operations. Moreover, there is a high degree of 
interactions between all actors in the circle. This implies that not only an individual 
companies’ business model is impacted, but that a new, integrated business 
model for all circle actors is required, asking for an open and flexible management 
and a transparent communication. 
Keywords 
circular economy, business models, agricultural sector, success factors 
 
 

 
 
Designing Circular, Collaborative, and 
Scalable Business Models for Recycling 
A Case Study of Reusing Textile Fibers in  
Biocomposite Products 
 
Martina, R. A.1, 2, Oskam, I. F. 1 
 
1Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences, Faculty of Technology; 
2Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences, Centre for Applied 
Research on Economics and Management; 
 
*r.a.martina@hva.nl  
 
Extended abstract  
Problem and objective 
Today’s societies face many sustainability problems, such as increased amounts of 
waste as well as resource scarcity due to high consumption habits. The circular 
economy offers solutions to mitigate these problems (Geissdoerfer, Savaget, 
Bocken & Hultink, 2017). Material streams can be reorganized, value can be 
preserved and products can be redesigned. The reorganization of value chains and 
successfully market their sustainability solution requires suitable circular business 
models. A circular business model can be seen as a specific type of sustainable 
business models (e.g. Bocken et al., 2016; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2016). There is a 
plurality in conceptualizations of circular business models. For example, Bocken, 
de Pauw, Bakker, & van der Grinten (2016) suggest slowing loops (i.e., reuse), 
closing loops (i.e., recycling), and narrowing loops (i.e., efficiency). Lüdeke-Freund, 
Gold & Bocken (2019) distinguish six major circular business model patterns: 
repair 
and 
maintenance, 
reuse 
and 
distribution, 
refurbishment 
and 
remanufacturing, recycling, cascading and repurposing, and organic feedstock. 
Despite the advances in circular business models, a case can be made that present 
frameworks contain two limitations. First, to close the loop, and thereby solve the 

 
 
environmental problems, diverse actors have to collaborate (Bocken et al., 2016). 
The majority of conceptualizations of circular business models do not take into 
account this collaborative nature (Pierone, McAloone & Pigosso, 2019). Second, 
circular business models should deliver benefits for the environment, while at the 
same time provide superior value to the end consumers (Boons and Lüdeke-
Freund, 2013). In practice, this endeavor faces many challenges. For example, 
recycling business models need to connect the downstream and upstream ends of 
supply chains, and need to organize reverse logistics that connect users, raw 
material suppliers, and parts manufacturers (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2019). 
Recycling of materials is often downcycling and results in materials that are of 
lower quality compared with virgin resources which is considered a barrier for the 
transition towards a circular economy (Bocken et al., 2017). Therefore, many 
projects with recycling business models never scale up and the intended impact 
remains elusive. However, upcycling of waste may offer better scaling potential as 
in the case of upcycling a normal or premium price may be charged. 
(Kraaijenhagen et al. 2016). 
This study aims to develop a comprehensive framework for recycling business 
models that are also collaborative and also takes into account the requirements 
for scalability. Towards that end, we ask ‘how can insights from circular, 
collaborative, and scalable business models be combined to achieve viable 
recycling business models?’  
 
Review of the literature 
The literature on circular business models, as well as the literature on collaborative 
business models contain valuable insights into how to design business models for 
recycling. Moreover, for the sustainability innovation to have an impact, it needs 
to be scalable. In this paper, we review these three streams of the literature and 
present a list of criteria that should be met to realize viable recycling business 
models. The criteria are presented in Table 1. 
 
 

 
 
Table 1. Criteria for circular, collaborative and scalable business models 
Circular (recycling)  
(Bocken et al., 2016; 
Lüdeke-Freund et al., 
2017) 
Collaborative  
(e.g. Lüdeke-Freund et 
al., 2016; Rohrbeck et 
al., 2017; Breuer and 
Lüdeke-Freund et al., 
2017) 
Scalable  
(e.g. Stampfl, Prügl and 
Osterloh, 2013); Van 
Winden & van den 
Buuse, 2015) 
Involve a divers set of 
actors 
Integrate the interest of 
various actors 
Scalable 
production 
technology 
(level 
of 
automation 
of 
processes 
and 
scalability 
of 
IT-
infrastructure) 
Require 
particular 
knowledge 
in 
fields 
such as product design 
and material sciences 
Align expectations of 
value outcomes 
Positive cost/ benefit 
structures 
Increases 
the 
recyclability 
(e.g., 
recycling 
with 
less 
energy) 
Balance in benefits and 
contributions  
Not bound to domestic 
laws 
Increases 
the 
recyclability 
(e.g. 
efficient 
pick-up 
of 
products)  
Build on personal match 
and trust 
Can 
gain 
network 
effects (going viral and 
critical mass) 
Turning 
‘wasted’ 
materials or resources 
into new forms of value 
Have an open attitude 
Solves a problem 
Has 
predictable 
and 
reliable return flow  
Are 
open 
to 
customization 
Is simple 
Requires 
take-back 
systems 
to 
collect/ 
source materials 
Involves an articulated 
value 
creation 
architecture  
Based on previous user 
knowledge 
Has 
efficiencies 
in 
production (producing 
faster and with less 
energy) 
 
Low 
levels 
of 
uniqueness 
(city, 
regional, 
national, 
international) 
Contains more efficient 
forms 
of 
recycling 
(market 
value 
vs. 
original costs) 
Partners 
operate 
in 
many 
geographies 
(urban, 
regional, 
national 
and 
international) 
Customers 
have 
interest 
in 
the 
environment 
or 
are 
business-to-business  
 
Availability 
of 
other 
stakeholders who can 
fulfil roles of partners 

 
 
In 
an 
ideal 
case, 
manufacturers 
themselves 
develop 
business 
models 
for 
resource reuse 
More 
functionalities 
can be added 
  
Approach/method 
To study the present problem, we use a design-oriented approach (Zimmerman, 
Forlizzi & Evenson, 2007; Hevner et al., 2008). The main premise of this method is 
to develop the framework through multiple interactions and interaction with 
practice, and it comprises of three phases. First, based on our literature review, 
we drafted a conceptual framework consisting of a list of criteria and relationships 
between the criteria. Second, we studied three cases of circular economy projects 
in the Netherlands2. For each case, business models will be designed using the 
identified criteria. We design the business models by first conducted semi-
structured interviews with all partners including prospective customers. 
Subsequently, we analysed the interviews according to the criteria of the 
framework established in phase 1. Based on our findings, we adjusted the 
framework, revised the business models and continued with a workshop in which 
we collectively (i.e., all partners and prospective customer) iterated the business 
models. The iteration continuous until there are business models that meet the 
partners’ requirements. Finally, using the final business models, we revised the 
framework including its criteria. 
The cases concern upcycling of waste by creating biocomposites based on textile 
waste fibre and bio-plastic for the business-to-business market. However, each 
case has developed different products for different markets, consists of different 
partners, and may require different business models. The motivation for our case 
selection is to enhance the richness of data, while retaining a clear and 
manageable variety among the cases.  
 
 
                                                 
2 Our empirical case is a circular economy initiative around textile fibres. Textile fibres that were 
harvested from what were initially urban waste streams, for example coffee bags from a big 
coffee producer, and waste products from an office furniture producer, are combined with 
bioplastics to create new products such as denim wall panels, coffee tables and noise-cancelling 
panels. These products are produced with the help of digital production techniques as well as 
different material combinations. A range of companies and other actors closely collaborate along 
the value chain of these products, in their quest to ‘close the loop’.  
 

 
 
Expected results/ findings 
The aim of this of this study is to develop a comprehensive framework to design 
recycling business models that are collaborative and scalable. We expect that such 
a framework is a challenge. In other words, in practice it is difficult to design 
circular business models that are also collaborative and scalable at the same time. 
With regards to the criteria for each area of the business model, we expect that 
there are overlap between the criteria across the three themes. Not all criteria will 
have same importance regarding the attainment of environmental benefits. 
Therefore, we suggest that there will be a clear ranking in the criteria. We also 
expect that the criteria have reinforcing and opposing relationships. 
Limitations and future research 
We identified two limitations with our study, and suggest the following future 
research avenues. First, our cases contain only business-to-business markets. 
Future research should also study business-to-consumers markets. Second, our 
cases focused solely on the upcycling of waste materials through creating 
biocomposites. We suggest that other types of recycling may require different 
business models. We also suggest that future research study on how to present 
solutions to the identified tensions between the criteria for circularity, 
collaboration, and scalability. 
Keywords 
Business models, circular economy, collaborative, upscaling, recycling 
References 
Bocken, N. M., de Pauw, I., Bakker, C., & van der Grinten, B. (2016). Product de-
sign and business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of 
Industrial and Production Engineering, 33(5), 308-320. 
Bocken, N. M., Olivetti, E. A., Cullen, J. M., Potting, J., & Lifset, R. (2017). Taking 
the circularity to the next level: a special issue on the circular economy. 
Journal of Industrial Ecology, 21(3), 476-482. 
Breuer, H., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2017). Values-based network and business model 
innovation. International Journal of Innovation Management, 21(03), 
1750028. 
Hevner, A. et al. (2008) ‘Design Science in Information Systems Research’, 
Management Information Systems Quarterly, 28(1). Available at: 
https://aisel.aisnet.org/misq/vol28/iss1/6 (Accessed: 29 January 2019). 

 
 
Kraaijenhagen, C., C. Oppen, and N. Bocken. 2016. Circular business. Collaborate 
& circulate. Amersfoort, the Netherlands: Circular Collaboration. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Massa, L., Bocken, N., Brent, A., & Musango, J. (2016). Busi-
ness models for shared value. Cape Town: Network for Business 
Sustainability South Africa. 
Lüdeke‐Freund, F., Gold, S., & Bocken, N. M. (2018). A Review and Typology of 
Circular Economy Business Model Patterns. Journal of Industrial Ecology.  
Pieroni, M. P., McAloone, T., & Pigosso, D. A. (2019). Business model innovation 
for circular economy and sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 
Stampfl, G., Prügl, R. and Osterloh, V. (2013) ‘An explorative model of business 
model scalability’, International Journal of Product Development, 18(3/4), p. 
226. doi: 10.1504/IJPD.2013.055014. 
van Winden, W. and van den Buuse, D. (2017) ‘Smart City Pilot Projects: Exploring 
the Dimensions and Conditions of Scaling Up’, Journal of Urban Technology. 
Routledge, 24(4), pp. 51–72. doi: 10.1080/10630732.2017.1348884. 
Zimmerman, J., Forlizzi, J. and Evenson, S. (2007) ‘Research through design as a 
method for interaction design research in HCI’, in Proceedings of the SIGCHI 
conference on Human factors in computing systems  - CHI ’07. New York, 
New York, USA: ACM Press, p. 493. doi: 10.1145/1240624.1240704. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Mind the gap: How to increase 
circularity in SMEs? 
 
Daniel Holzer, Romana Rauter, Tobias Stern 
Institute for Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability 
Research, University of Graz 
 
Corresponding author: daniel.holzer@uni-graz.at 
 
Abstract 
The implementation of Circular Economy practices is a highly relevant issue for 
numerous reasons. However, contextual factors that are crucial for the transition 
to a CE are often neglected. The role of the size of the company in this process was 
investigated in this study, placing a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. 
The aim of this research was to identify improvement opportunities for SMEs that 
allowed them to establish circularity in their company. 
Keywords 
Circularity assessment, Importance-Performance Analysis, Business Model 
Innovation, Small and Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) 
Introduction 
Publications such as the Brundtland Report (1987), Limits of Growth (1972; 2004) 
and Rockström et al. (2009), in which the Planetary boundaries concept is 
described, have highlighted the fact that resources on earth are finite; however, 
we are observing an exponential growth of: “population, food production, 
industrialization, pollution and consumption of non-renewable natural resources” 
(Meadows et al. 1972, p.25). Some reasons for this growth may be found in an 
escalation of a product-based linear economy with a take-make-dispose tradition. 
Following this tradition has resulted in great prosperity, wealth, comfort and a 
high level of technological development in some parts of the earth, but has also 

 
 
led to human-made climate change, rising sea levels, scarcity of raw materials, 
mass extinction of all kind of species and huge landfills. “Over the last four decades 
the global use of materials tripled from 26.7 billion tons in 1970, to 84.4 billion tons 
in 2015 (…) it has been accelerating” (de Wit et al., 2018, p. 11).  
As the shift towards more sustainable social and economic systems has occurred, 
various concepts have emerged including the Circular Economy (CE). According to 
the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF), the CE concept has gained acceptance 
since the 1970s, with the target to counteract the take-make-dispose economy 
that emerged at the time. The CE was not a novel creation, but was instead based 
on and has been adapted according to various schools of thought (Regenerative 
Design, Mimicry, Industrial Ecology, Performance Economy, Cradle to Cradle) 
(Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 2012). CE has not yet been conclusively defined; 
hence, the following definition by Kirchherr et al. (2017), who reviewed 114 
definitions, was used as a basis for this research: Kirchherr defined CE as "an 
economic system that replaces the ‘end-of-life’ concept with reducing, 
alternatively reusing, recycling and recovering materials in production/distribution 
and consumption processes. (…) with the aim to accomplish sustainable 
development, thus simultaneously creating environmental quality, economic 
prosperity and social equity, to the benefit of current and future generations. It is 
enabled by novel business models and responsible consumers” (Kirchherr et al., 
2017, p. 229). 
CE is a topic of increasing importance on the political agenda, as well. The 
European Commission (2015) stated that a CE can promote new business 
opportunities, innovation and the creation of new jobs, while saving energy, raw 
materials and minimizing the impact of activities on nature. It is estimated that a 
transition to a CE could reduce emissions by 48% by 2030 and by 83% by 2050, 
based on current levels, especially in the food, mobility and the construction 
sector (Ellen MacArthur Foundation, 2015). 
To achieve these goals, however, it is necessary to make substantial changes and 
adopt new strategies on various levels, which range from strategies enacted by 
individual actors to those applied by systemic changes. Based on the findings of 
recent research, three areas of future research on the CE have been identified:  
• First, the term CE requires theoretical clarification so that conceptual 
ambiguity can be eliminated, since “(…) most authors conceptually simplify 
the Circular Economy to resource input, waste and emission output” (e.g., 

 
 
Geissdoerfer et al., 2017, p.765). This definition, however, does not fully 
capture the concept and its potential applications in practice. 
• Second, despite the already widespread diffusion of the CE and a growing 
number of CE tools and reports (e.g., Ellen MacArthur Foundation 2015; 
European Commission, 2015; de Wit et al., 2018), decision-makers in 
companies lack specific guidance regarding how to implement CE 
practices.  
• Third, while the existing tools and methods can be used to effectively and  
progressively implement the CE, certain contextual factors are often 
neglected, such as the type of industry, the size of a company, or the 
availability of resources and the corporate culture (Masurel, 2007), all of 
which potentially influence company activities.  
These contextual factors are considered as particularly relevant to small and 
medium-sized companies (SMEs), because their needs and resources differ from 
those of large companies (Ghisellini et al., 2016). The implementation of a CE, 
however, offers a huge potential for innovations and competitive advantages in 
companies of all sizes (Zamfir et al., 2017). In addition, the European Commission 
(2014) particularly emphasized the role of SMEs by introducing green action plans 
for them, aiming to improve resource efficiency, support green entrepreneurship, 
use green value chains and facilitate green market access. 
For these reasons, and especially by addressing SMEs in the context of the CE, the 
focus of this research was to identify ways to improve CE implementation in SMEs. 
The aim of this study was to explore how decision-makers perceived the 
importance and performance of specific CE activities in SMEs. The Importance 
Performance Analysis (IPA) (Martilla & James, 1977) was applied as an evaluation 
method. The results of this analysis provided information about the CE activities 
that were considered important but rather poorly performed in the SMEs. The 
findings of the study allowed us to identify ways SMEs can increase circularity.  
Theoretical background 
In general, SMEs differ from larger organizations in terms of their available 
resources. This lack/scarcity of resources affects several types of activities. 
However, this general observation did not reflect on the perceived importance 
and performance of CE in this study. In this context, it is helpful to gain a better 

 
 
understanding of factors that enable or act as barriers to the actual 
implementation of CE business practices (Rizos et al., 2016).  
Several studies have addressed barriers and enablers for CE in the form of 
literature reviews (de Jesus & Mendonça, 2017; Govindan & Hasanagic, 2018) or 
by combined literature reviews and case studies (Rizos et al., 2016; Ritzén & 
Sandstörm, 2017; Pheifer, 2017; Kirchherr et al., 2018; Caldera et al., 2019, Tura 
et al., 2019). Due to the novelty of the CE and the low amount of existing empirical 
research, these studies were generally explorative in nature; however, 
correlations among the categories of barriers and enablers can be observed (Table 
1). 
Authors 
Barriers 
Drivers/Enablers 
Rizos et al., 
2016 
Lack of supply and demand 
network, lack of capital, lack of 
government support, 
administrative burden, lack of 
technical know-how, lack of 
information, company 
environment culture 
Company environmental culture, 
networking, support from demand 
network, financially attractive, 
recognition, personal knowledge, 
government support 
Ritzén & 
Sandstörm, 
2017 
Financial, structural, operational, 
attitudinal, technological 
No driving or enabling factors were 
analyzed 
Pheifer, 2017 ** 
Product design, lack of reverse 
supply-chains, lack of 
understanding of the concept 
itself, governmental/policy barriers 
Mandatory eco-design/C2C 
strategies/design for residual value 
governments, policy and legislation to 
integrate ecological and societal costs 
into final price 
de Jesus & 
Mendonça, 
2018 
Technical, institutional/regulatory, 
financial / market, social / cultural 
Institutional/regulatory, 
financial/market, social/cultural, 
technical 
Govindan & 
Hasanagic, 2018  
Governmental issues, technological 
issues, knowledge and skill issues, 
management issues, circular 
economy framework issues, 
culture and social issues, market 
issues 
Policy and economy, health, 
environmental protection, society, 
product development 
Kirchherr et al., 
2018 
Cultural, market, regulatory, 
technological 
No driving or enabling factors were 
analyzed 
Caldera et al., 
2019 
Lack of 
knowledge/skills/awareness, time 
constraints, lack of financial 
resources, risk of sustainable 
practice implementation, existing 
organizational culture, current 
regulations and policies 
Integrated strategy, continuous 
improvement, stakeholder engagement, 
streamlining processes 

 
 
Tura et al., 2019 
Economic, social, institutional, 
technological/informational, 
supply chain, organizational 
Environmental, economic, social, 
institutional, 
technological/informational, supply 
chain, organizational 
 
Differences between the literature reviews and case studies, as well as the use of 
different samples, potentially led to different evaluations and depths of 
investigation. In the following section, an overview of the most frequently 
encountered barriers and enablers is provided. 
All studies mentioned (Table 1) identified significant barriers regarding a lack of 
capital (financial barrier) and a lack of customer demand (social barrier). 
Furthermore, Caldera et al. (2019) mentioned that a lack in technical expertise 
could act as a barrier, especially in SMEs. Technical or technological factors were 
most often cited as one of the main barriers in the literature (de Jesus & Mendonça 
2018, Govindan & Hasanagic, 2018).  
One of the most recent, largest studies (Kirchherr et al., 2018) related to CE 
barriers (n= 208 survey respondents, 47 expert interviews) found technical 
barriers to be negligible, but identified a hesitant company culture as the most 
significant barrier, which may be justified by current market barriers, and 
particularly thelow virgin material prices and high upfront investment costs. Rizos 
et al. (2016), however, found that company culture was a central enabler for the 
implementation of CE, especially the commitment levels and mind-set of the staff. 
It is important to note that only SMEs that had already applied "green solutions" 
in their business models were included in the sample in this case study.  
However, this observation of a difference between a hesitant company culture 
(Kirchherr et al., 2018) and a supportive company culture (Rizos et al., 2016) could 
indicate that it might be considered difficult to initiate the transition towards a CE. 
Although institutions such as the European Commission and the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation have promised companies that transition to the CE great benefits, it is 
unclear whether these promises really act as enabling factors for SMEs. This 
research addresses this research gap and explores precursors that have not been 
studied previously, examining how the individual perceptions of decision-makers 
affect CE implementation in SMEs. 
Table 1 - Identified studies on barriers to and enablers for the CE 
** Only the most relevant barriers and opportunities have been listed. 

 
 
Methodology 
This section is divided into three parts, starting with an illustration of the literature 
research conducted to identify central CE categories.The methodological 
approach taken and the sampling strategy used are subsequently presented. 
Literature review 
Based on the studies mentioned in Table 1, a semi-structured literature review 
was conducted to identify potential opportunities for the implementation of a CE 
in enterprises. Literature on the topic of CE were identified by initially searching 
the Scopus abstract and citation database and with the Google Scholar web search 
engine using the keywords “circular economy” and then refining the search by 
using the keywords “enabler,” “enabling factors,” “driver,” “driving factors” and 
“opportunities,” as well as the reference lists of the identified studies (Tab. 1). 
Statements and quotations in the texts that referred to potentials for 
improvement through the application of CE strategies were subsequently 
recorded. The literature selection was constantly extended until no further unique 
statements for each respective category could be identified.  
Methodological approach 
A questionnaire3 was then used to investigate potential areas for improvement in 
companies. This questionnaire was developed with the procedure for an 
Importance Performance Analysis (Martilla & James, 1977). The IPA is a useful 
method (Sever, 2015) that can be used to detect gaps between particular aspects 
of importance and performance. It was originally developed for marketing 
research, but was lately adapted for use in the health services (Abalo et al., 2007), 
tourist services (Azzopardi & Nash, 2013), or to examine public perception of 
electronic vehicles (Riedner et al., 2019).  
In this questionnaire, respondents were first asked to describe the perceived 
importance of the six categories in the respective company. Second, the same 
categories were used, but the respondents were asked to describe the perceived 
performance of the companies. A uniform explanation of these categories was 
provided on the questionnaire for clarification purposes (Tab. 2). This approach 
was taken to determine whether a gap existed between the individual perception 
                                                 
3 See Appendix 

 
 
of the importance and the performance of the respective categories and reveal 
opportunities to bridge this gap. The respondents’ answers also revealed external 
factors that influenced the companies. Based on the literature on CE barriers 
(Table 1), we examined whether the market (Kirchherr et al. 2018), technology 
(Ritzén & Sandstörm; 2017, de Jesus & Mendonça 2018; Govindan & Hasanagic, 
2018), or legislation (Rizos et al., 2016; Pheifer, 2017; Caldera et al., 2019) had the 
strongest influence on the companies included in the sample. A pairwise 
comparison method (Stern et al., 2012) was used to investigate the perceived 
influence of these three external factors. Again, on the use of a questionnaire 
allowed us to determine which of the three factors was regarded as the main 
influencing factor in the respective company of the respondent. Since the study 
was carried out to gain more insight into ways to improve CE implementation, this 
was considered as a supplemental question. Furthermore, the industry sectors 
were classified according to the ÖNACE 20084 standards, and we collected 
information on the size of the company, the year of foundation, the location of 
the company, and the gender, age and the position in the company of the 
interviewed person.  
Sampling strategy 
Because research on perceptions on ways to apply strategies to promote the 
transition to the CE, particularly in SMEs, is still scarce, this empirical study was 
explorative. The findings of research on barriers to and enablers of CE (Tab.1) 
represented the theoretical backbone of this study, but the practical application 
of the research was partly predefined by the Interreg project Start Circles5; 
therefore, certain requirements for the sampling were specified: 
• Geographical boundaries were defined on the basis of the program area 
Austria - Slovenia. Companies in the provinces of Styria, Carinthia, 
Burgenland and Slovenia were considered for the sample. 
• The size of the enterprise represented the second limitation. As a result, 
the sample only included small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). The 
definition of SMEs was based on the definition recommended by the EU6. 
                                                 
4 http://www.stat.at/web_en/classifications/implementation_of_the_onace2008/index.html 
(Accessed: 17.05.2019) 
5 http://www.si-at.eu/de2/start-circles/ (Accessed: 17.05.2019) 
6 http://ec.europa.eu/DocsRoom/documents/10033/attachments/1/translations (Accessed: 
17.05.2019) 

 
 
The aim of the project was to contact representatives at 80 SMEs, 40 of which are 
based in Austria and 40, in Slovenia. Due to the expertise of project members, 
companies that work in the wood and polymer industries were selected. In Austria 
and Slovenia, the respective 40 SMEs could be roughly divided into 20 SMEs in the 
wood industry and 20 SMEs in the polymer industry, respectively. The SMEs in 
Austria were identified by searching the Compass Group database (data export 
date: 24 April 2019).  
The ÖNACE classification was used to select all companies in the wood or polymer 
industries for the sample. Single-person enterprises were not included in the 
sample due to their weak organizational structures and lack of strategies and 
resources. 513 companies from the wood industry and 210 companies from the 
polymer industry were contacted by e-mail and asked to participate in the survey.  
Results 
The Results are split into two sections. First, the results of the literature review are 
presented, followed by initial results of the survey. 
Results: Literature research 
Overall, statements were extracted from 35 articles. As a result, six CE relevant 
categories (Table. 2) were established based on the gathered quotations. 
Table 2 shows relevant quotations that were extracted from the literature. These 
were  arranged thematically and grouped into categories. Six CE categories were 
defined and are shown below. The uniform explanation for the category included 
on the questionnaire is also shown. 
CE categories 
Explanation in 
the questionnaire 
Examples of codes used 
for categorization 
Source 
Sustainability 
Companies that 
decrease their 
environmental impact 
because of their 
corporate philosophy 
and not because of 
legislative forces or 
strategic reasons 
display sustainability. 
"reduced environmental 
impact" 
"management’s value and 
belief system" 
"(...) consisting in placing profit 
in a secondary role of 
importance, for the benefit of 
employers, the community, and 
nature." 
"Idealistic/altruistic motive" 
 Linder & Willander 
(2017), Cambra-
Fierro et al. (2008), 
Zamfir et al. 
(2017),  Crals & 
Vereeck (2004), 
Hemingway & 
Maclagan (2004) 

 
 
Resource 
efficiency 
Companies that 
maximize the effective 
use of resources, which 
not only reduces 
material and energy 
consumption, but also 
reduces waste disposal, 
wastewater treatment 
and emissions display 
resource efficiency. 
"Higher resource efficiency also 
means reduced costs (…), as 
well as for waste disposal, 
waste water treatment and 
emissions." 
“Resource efficiency or 
narrowing resource flows, 
aimed at using fewer resources 
per product." 
"Great strides have been made 
in improving resource 
efficiency." 
"Resource productivity for EU28 
has improved." 
 "East China regions have 
genuine interests in improving 
resource efficiency and 
environmental performance." 
"Efficiency can help reduce 
environmental impacts and 
resource use and thus support 
competitiveness." 
Stahel (2012), 
Bocken et al. 
(2016), Ellen Mac 
Arthur Foundation 
(2012), European 
Commission 2015, 
Geng et al. (2012), 
Lüdeke-Freund 
(2015), Linder & 
Willander (2017) 
Differentiation 
Companies that have 
the capacity to 
distinguish themselves 
from competitors by 
finding new business 
opportunities and 
transforming the 
business in a way that 
enhances market 
attractiveness (e.g., 
marketing) display 
differentiation. 
"CE will give the companies new 
profit possibilities, increase 
competitive advantage." 
"…improved or new products, 
services, or processes with 
which firms seek to differentiate 
themselves on the market…" 
"…increase market share and to 
differentiate the organization 
from its competitors…" 
"…a green-based competitive 
advantage existing when a firm 
does well by doing good— i.e., 
where the firm finds a relative 
cost or differentiation benefit, 
versus its peers…" 
Lewandowski 
(2016), Rauter et 
al. (2018), 
Gadenne et al. 
(2009), Arend 
(2013), Bocken et 
al., 2014) 
Collaboration 
with 
stakeholder(s) 
Companies that work 
together with 
stakeholders (e.g. 
suppliers, customers) 
and integrating them 
into internal processes 
or procedures display 
collaboration with 
stakeholder(s). 
"Strong collaboration network 
tend to be crucial in terms of 
improving sustainability 
performance." 
"Collaborative consumption 
models are recognized as one of 
the best available options on 
consumer side to shift from the 
present business-as-usual 
model to CE." 
"Industrial symbiosis construed 
as networks of organizations 
cooperatively sharing “wastes” 
has created irresistible imagery 
and high hopes for a time when 
virtually all water, energy, and 
materials will be used more 
than once, and not to do will 
have become societally 
unacceptable." 
Geissdorfer et al. 
(2018), Ghisellini et 
al. (2016); Chertow 
& Park (2016), 
Lewandowski, 
(2016) 

 
 
Independence 
from resource 
supply 
Companies that reduce 
the degree to which 
they rely on the 
availability of external 
inputs from a limited 
number of companies or 
sources display 
independence from 
resource supply.  
"It replaces the concept of 
waste with the one of 
restoration and aims to 
decouple economic growth 
from the use of virgin 
resources." 
“CE-type arrangements of the 
physical flows of materials and 
energy would reduce virgin 
inputs to the system and waste 
and emissions outputs from the 
system." 
"…supply risk and scarcity of 
resources…" 
Ellen Mac Arthur 
Foundation (2015), 
Korhonen et al. 
(2018), 
Parchomenko et al. 
(2019), Ghisellini et 
al. (2016), Reike et 
al., (2018) 
Life cycle 
knowledge 
Companies that possess 
information about 
product utilization by, 
e.g., studying returned 
products after use can 
better understand 
customer behaviour and 
product durability, 
which can be used to 
improve products and 
increases customer 
loyalty. These 
companies display life 
cycle knowledge. 
"Improved product failure 
knowledge…" 
“Caterpillar 
engineers study returned 
components and 
continually improve the 
company’s ability to 
remanufacture them at lower 
cost and higher 
quality." 
"…securing of spare parts over 
the whole car life cycle, as well 
as market share and brand 
protection…" 
Walsh (2010), Ellen 
MacArthur 
Foundation (2013); 
Seitz (2007); 
Ghisellini et al. 
(2016) 
Table 2: Illustration of CE categories 
 
Sustainability is displayed by companies that decrease their environmental impact 
because of their corporate philosophy and not because of legislative forces or 
strategic reasons. As in Rizos et al. (2016), this category was created to shed more 
light on the companies’ cultures. If sustainability itself does not constitute a reason 
for the transition, then other motivational factors are usually characterized by 
their contribution to profit (Zamfir et al., 2017).  
Resource efficiency increases profits by reducing material or energy consumption 
(Linder & Williander, 2017). This category is characterized by optimum resource 
utilization, which, on the one hand, can reduce costs (Stahel 2012) and, on the 
other hand, can reduce waste and emissions (Bocken et al. 2016). 
Differentiation can be demonstrated by companies that differentiated themselves 
from others by creating new value propositions and, thereby, addressing their 
customers directly (Bocken et al., 2014, Lewandowski, 2016, Rauter et al., 2018). 
The ability to differentiate oneself from competitors is a central aspect in 
marketing and allows companies to obtain revenue. Companies that find 

 
 
sustainable concepts or solutions (e.g., Fairphone7, Recover Brands8) can increase 
in market attractiveness and gain competitive advantages on the market. 
Cooperation with stakeholders is regarded as a key element of CE, since a product 
is associated with an entire supply or value chain; therefore, circularity increases 
as the number of sustainable partnerships increases (Lewandowski, 2016). 
Concepts such as Industrial Symbiosis or Eco Parks (Chertow & Park, 2016) can 
only be applied through cooperation, whereby waste can be used for other 
purposes than being deposited in a landfill, and material cycles can be closed. 
Independence from supply of resources implies that certain strategies can be used 
to resolve the dependence on raw materials, thereby, increasing the companies’ 
resilience (e.g., oil prices, lack of supply) (Ghisellini et al., 2016). In order to 
overcome dependency, the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2012) emphasizes the 
3Rs principles (Reuse, Recycle, Remanufacture), which were defined in an attempt 
to close material cycles9. In the scientific literature, the concept of the 3Rs has 
been extended up to 10 Rs (with the addition of Refuse, Reduce, Repair, Refurbish, 
Re-purpose, Recover, Re-mine) to minimize the material input (Reike et al., 2018). 
Life cycle knowledge refers to information that is obtained about product usage to 
minimize errors and improve the company representatives’ understanding of 
customer consumption patterns (Walsh, 2010), as well as optimizing the product 
itself by securing spare parts or remanufacturing parts (Seitz, 2007, Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation 2013). 
An illustration of the relationships among the individual categories and their 
main influences is provided in Figure 2. 
 
                                                 
7 https://www.fairphone.com/en/ (Accessed: 17.05.2019) 
8 https://recoverbrands.com/ (Accessed: 17.05.2019) 
9 
https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/circular-economy/infographic 
(Accessed: 
17.05.2019) 
 

 
 
 
 
Preliminary results of the survey 
A first test phase of the survey was performed in December 2018 and January 2019 
with 15 SMEs.  
The majority of responses on the questionnaire (n = 6) could be allocated to the 
ÖNACE category “Manufacture of goods.” The respondents indicated that the 
market orientation exerted the greatest influence on their company, along with 
influences that arose from legislation or new technologies. The main gaps were 
identified in the two categories “resource efficiency” and “independence from 
resource supply.” Therefore, revisions in these categories could be made the 
respective companies’ business models to promote the transition to the CE.  
Four of the responses from the other nine SMEs could be allocated to the ÖNACE 
category “service activities,” which were related to legislation. The dominant 
business opportunity gap was identified in the category “collaboration with 
stakeholders.” 

 
 
A more detailed analysis of the similarities and differences between the perceived 
importance and performance of CE business opportunities will subsequently be 
made with a larger sample of SMEs (n = 70-100) to identify gaps.  
This study contributed to a better understanding of factors that promote the 
transition to the CE in SMEs and allowed us to identify topical areas in which 
strategic changes could be made to drive circularity in the respective business 
models of the companies. 
 
 
 

 
 
Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
References 
Abalo, J., Varela, J., Manzano, V. (2007) Importance values for Importance – 
Performance Analysis: A formula for spreading out values derived from 
preference rankings. Journal of Business Research, 60, 115–121. 
Arend, R. J. (2013) Social and Environmental Performance at SMEs: Considering 
Motivations, Capabilities, and Instrumentalism. Journal of Business Ethics, 
125(4), pp. 541–561. 
Azzopardi, E. and Nash, R. (2013) A critical evaluation of importance - performance 
analysis. Tourism Management. 35, 222–233. 
Bocken, N. M.P. Short, S. W., Rana, P., Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 65, 42–56. 
Bocken, N. M. P. et al. (2016) Product design and business model strategies for a 
circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering. Taylor & 
Francis, 33(5), pp. 308–320. 
Brundtland, G., Khalid, M., Agnelli, S., Al-Athel, S., Chidzero, B., Fadika, L., Hauff, 
V., Lang, I., Shijun, M., de Botero, M.M., (1987). Our Common Future. 
Brundtland report. 
Caldera, H. T. S., Desha, C. and Dawes, L. (2019) Evaluating the enablers and 
barriers for successful implementation of sustainable business practice in 
“lean” SMEs. Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 218, pp. 575–590. 
Cambra-Fierro, J., Hart, S. and Polo-Redondo, Y. (2008) Environmental respect: 
Ethics or simply business? A study in the Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) 
context. Journal of Business Ethics, 82(3), pp. 645–656. 
Chertow, Marian, Park, J. (2016) Taking stock of industrial ecology. Taking Stock of 
Industrial Ecology, (1), pp. 1–362. 
De Jesus, A. & Mendonça, S. (2018) Lost in Transition? Drivers and Barriers in the 
Eco-innovation Road to the Circular Economy. Ecological Economics. 145, 
75–89.  
De Wit, M., Hoozaad, J., Ramkumar, S., Friedl, H., Douma, A., et al., (2018) The 
circularity gap report: An analysis of the circular state of the global economy. 
Circle Economy 1-36. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2012) Towards the Circular Economy: Economic and 
business rationale for an accelerated transition. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation, (2013) Towards the Circular Economy 2. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2015) Towards a Circular Economy : Business 
Rationale for an Accelerated Transition. Greener Management International. 

 
 
European Commission (2009) Commission Staff Working Document on the 
implementation of Commission Recommendation of 6 May 2003 concerning 
the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.  
European Commission (2014) Green Action Plan for SMEs. Enabling SMEs to turn 
environmental challenges into business opportunities. 
European Commission (2015) Closing the loop - An EU action plan for the Circular 
Economy. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M.P., Hultink, E. J. (2017) The Circular 
Economy – A new sustainability paradigm? Journal of Cleaner Production. 
143, 757–768. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Morioka, S. N., de Carvalho, M. M., Evans, S. (2018) Business 
models and supply chains for the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 190, 712–721. 
Geng, Y. et al. (2012) Towards a national circular economy indicator system in 
China: An evaluation and critical analysis. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
Elsevier Ltd, 23(1), pp. 216–224. 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., Ulgiati, S. (2016) A review on circular economy: The 
expected transition to a balanced interplay of environmental and economic 
systems. Journal of Cleaner Production. 114, 11–32. 
Govindan, K. and Hasanagic, M. (2018) A systematic review on drivers, barriers, 
and practices towards circular economy: a supply chain perspective. 
International Journal of Production Research. Taylor & Francis, 56(1–2), pp. 
278–311. 
Hemingway, C. A., Maclagan, P. W. (2004) Managers’ Personal Values as Drivers of 
Corporate Social Responsibility. Annual Review of Public Health, 15(1), pp. 
157–178. 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D., Hekkert, M. (2017) Conceptualizing the circular economy: 
An analysis of 114 definitions. Resources, Conservation and Recycling. 127, 
221–232. 
Kirchherr, J., Piscicelli, L., Bour, R., Kostense-Smit, E., Muller, J., Huibrechtse-
Truijens, A., Hekkert, M. (2018) Barriers to the Circular Economy: Evidence 
From the European Union (EU). Ecological Economics. 150, 264–272. 
Lewandowski, M. (2016) Designing the business models for circular economy-
towards the conceptual framework. Sustainability (Switzerland), 8(1), 1–28. 
Linder, M. & Willander, M. (2017) Circular Business Model Innovation: Inherent 
Uncertainties. Business Strategy and the Environment. 26(2), 182–196. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2015) ‘Towards a conceptual framework of business models 
for sustainability. The 14th European Roundtable on Sustainable Production 
and Consumption (ERSCP) The 6th Environm’, 49(0), pp. 1–28.  

 
 
Masurel, E. (2007) Why SMEs invest in environmental measures: sustainability 
evidence from small and medium-sized printing firms. Business Strategy and 
the Environment. 16(3), 190–201.  
Martilla, J. A., & James, J. C. (1977). Importance-performance analysis. Journal of 
Marketing, 41(1),, 77-79 
Meadows, Donella H., Meadows, Dennis L., Randers, Jorgen, Behrens III, William 
W., (1972) The Limits to Growth: a Report for the Club of Rome's Project on 
the Predicament of Mankind, 5th Edition. Universe Books, New York. 
Meadows, D.H., Randers, J., Meadows, D.L., (2004) The Limits to Growth. The 30-
year Update. Routledge, London. 
Mendoza, J. M. F., Sharmina, M., Gallego-Schmid, A., Heyes, G., Azapagic, A. (2017) 
Integrating Backcasting and Eco-Design for the Circular Economy: The BECE 
Framework. Journal of Industrial Ecology. 21(3), 526–544. 
Parchomenko, A., Nelen, D., Gillabel, J., Rechberger, H. (2019) Measuring the 
circular economy - A Multiple Correspondence Analysis of 63 metrics. 
Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 210, pp. 200–216. 
Pheifer, A.G., (2017). Barriers and Enablers to Circular Business Models. A 
whitepaper 
Rauter, R., Globocnik, D., Perl-Vorbach, E., Baumgartner, R.J. (2018) Open 
innovation and its effects on economic and sustainability innovation 
performance. Journal of Innovation & Knowledge. Journal of Innovation & 
Knowledge. 
Reike, D., Vermeulen, W. J. V. and Witjes, S. (2018) The circular economy: New or 
Refurbished as CE 3.0? — Exploring Controversies in the Conceptualization 
of the Circular Economy through a Focus on History and Resource Value 
Retention Options. Resources, Conservation and Recycling. Elsevier, 
135(February 2017), pp. 246–264. 
Riedner, L., Mair, C., and Brudermann, T. (2019) E-mobility in agriculture: 
differences in perception between experienced and non-experienced 
electric vehicle users. Clean Technologies and Environmental Policy. 21(1), 
55–67. 
Ritzén, S., Sandström, G. Ö. (2017) Barriers to the Circular Economy - integration 
of perspectives and domains, Conference paper, 7–12.  
Rizos, V., Behrens, A., Wytze, van der Gaast, Hofman, E., et al. (2016) 
Implementation of circular economy business models by small and medium-
sized enterprises (SMEs): Barriers and enablers. Sustainability (Switzerland), 
8(11). 1-18 

 
 
Rockström, J., Steffen, W., Noone, K., Persson, Å., Chapin III, F.S., Lambin, E., 
Lenton, T.M., Scheffer, M., Folke, C., Schellnhuber, H., Nykvist, B., De Wit, 
C.A., Hughes, T., van der Leeuw, S., Rodhe, H., Sörlin, S., Snyder, P.K., 
Costanza, R., Svedin, U., Falkenmark, M., Karlberg, L., Corell, R.W., Fabry, 
V.J., Hansen, J., Walker, B., Liverman, D., Richardson, K., Crutzen, P., Foley, 
J., (2009) A safe operating space for humanity. Nature Vol 461/ 24, 472–475. 
Seitz, M. A. (2007) A critical assessment of motives for product recovery: the case 
of engine remanufacturing. Journal of Cleaner Production. 15(11–12), 1147–
1157. 
Sever, I. (2015) Importance-performance analysis: A valid management tool? 
Tourism Management. 48, 43–53. 
Stahel, W. R. (2012) The business angle of a circular economy – higher 
competitiveness, higher resource security and material efficiency. Emf, 
15.05.12, pp. 1–10. 
Statistik Austria (2008) Implementation of the ÖNACE 2008. 
Stern, T., Heil, G., Schwarzbauer, P. (2013) Identifying innovation barriers using a 
Delphi method approach : the case of technical lignin in the wood-based 
panel industry. International Wood Products Journal. 3(2), 116-123. 
Tura, N. et al. (2019) Unlocking circular business: A framework of barriers and 
drivers. Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 212, pp. 90–98. 
Walsh, B. (2010) PSS for Product Life Extension through Remanufacturing. 
Proceedings of the 2nd CIRP IPS2 Conference, Linköping, Sweden, pp. 261–
266. 
Zamfir, A. M., Mocanu, C. and Grigorescu, A. (2017) Circular economy and decision 
models among European SMEs. Sustainability (Switzerland), 9(9), 1-15. 
 
 

 
 
Opening the (black) box of closing the 
loop: An empirically derived taxonomy 
of how companies create new use 
lives for waste materials 
 
Elizabeth Mary Miller 
Aalto University, Finland 
 
Abstract 
This paper aims to ground the study of circular economy business models (CEBMs) 
in practice by empirically examining CEBMs centered around recycling activities in 
firms that are not waste management service providers at their core. Specifically, 
it seeks to answer the following research question: How do closed- and open-loop 
recycling CEBMs compare in practice? The research question is examined through 
an exploratory multiple case study. The units of observation are six circular 
economy frontrunner companies, and the units of analysis are the recycling 
typologies closed-loop, open-loop: upcycling and open-loop: downcycling. The 
clearest difference between the models was in their value creation processes, 
particularly how firms acquire waste materials. A fourth recycling typology, 
ambiguous value change, was created for cases in which it is not inherently clear 
whether the materials achieve a higher quality and/or functionality in their second 
lives. The analysis also found different value propositions for the different models, 
and found that companies need to additionally think about upstream value 
propositions to incentivize partners to collaborate. The case companies’ 
differences in value delivery and value capture seemed to be largely a function of 
the firms’ inherent properties rather than of their recycling models. The findings 
showed that there are differences between closed- and open-loop recycling 
business models and that in CEBMs, the lines between business model 
components – especially between value creation and delivery, and between value 
creation and value proposition – can become blurred. 
 

 
 
Keywords 
circular economy, closed loop, circular business model, sustainable production, 
value creation 
 
 

 
 
Taming the Elephant in the Room 
Consumer Acceptance of Circular Economy  
Business Models 
 
Paul Wolf1,*, Sylvie Geisendorf1,  
 
1; 2 ESCP Europe, Campus Berlin 
Heubnerweg 8-10 
14059 Berlin;  
 
*pwolf@escpeurope.eu 
 
Extended abstract 
The contemporary ‘Linear Economy’ (LE) has been fed by a one-way resource use, 
‘take-make-dispose’ logic. In the LE, consumers often don’t concern themselves 
with the details—what was taken, how it was made, and how is it disposed—but 
can often enjoy the simplicity of the sanitized consumption process (Borrello et 
al., 2017). The LE is a potentially self-destructive model that not only endangers 
the natural environment, but also the resilience and security of the economic 
system as it exploits the resources base of production and emits damaging 
substances and waste. 
In response to these threats, the idea of the Circular Economy (CE) has gained 
momentum as a solution and template for the future economy (Su et al., 2013; 
Ghisellini, Cialani and Ulgiati, 2016; Merli, Preziosi and Acampora, 2018). The CE is 
a prescriptive sustainable transition outcome that aims to decouple economic 
growth from resource use and establish resiliency (Hofmann, 2019) by maintaining 
a high value of products in the economic system, with materials flowing from the 
end of one value cycle to the beginning of the next, while sustaining balance with 
the natural environment’s regenerative capacity. At the core, the CE characterizes 
system-wide requirements to refuse (Reike, Vermeulen and Witjes, 2018), reduce, 
reuse, and recycle materials (Ghisellini, Cialani and Ulgiati, 2016), as well as employ 
renewable energy, distinguish biological and technical material flows, and design 

 
 
products and systems to facilitate circularity (Braungart, McDonough and 
Bollinger, 2007; EMF, 2012). 
While the CE concept has received considerable ontological inquiry (Ghisellini, 
Cialani and Ulgiati, 2016; Geisendorf and Pietrulla, 2017; Kirchherr et al., 2017; 
Korhonen, Honkasalo and Seppälä, 2018) and circular economy business models 
(CEBM) (Urbinati, Chiaroni and Chiesa, 2017; Geissdoerfer et al., 2018; Lüdeke-
Freund, Gold and Bocken, 2018), the role of consumers who have to accept, buy, 
and participate in the CE products and service offerings (e.g. potentially more 
demanding take-back systems) is surprisingly under-researched to date from a 
conceptual perspective (Planing, 2015; Camacho-otero, Boks and Pettersen, 
2018). 
This paper aims to contribute to filling this gap by analyzing fundamental CE 
principles from the consumer perspective to synthesize and structure latent 
acceptance and contribution problems that different aspects of circular 
consumption might provoke for different products and by drawing on related 
literature to gain a better understanding of these implications.  
In the CEBM and product requirement perspective, mechanisms aim to close or 
slow resource loops, through sharing, reusing, recovering, repairing and 
maintaining products and their value (Bocken et al., 2016). These are further 
facilitated by various guidelines that include the product’s material arrangement 
and composition, e.g. durability (physical, functional, emotional), modularity, 
repairability, as well as being composed of biological content or recycled content 
that is technically and feasibly recycled (den Hollander et al., 2017).  
Indeed, when intentionally designing closed loops, a business may be challenged 
to optimally balance CE principles, given the prevailing economic forces that may 
affect profitability and consumer acceptance. While contemporary product and 
BM development may leverage every means available to capture the most 
demand with the strongest value proposition (e.g. achieving higher convenience 
and lower cost), a circular designer would aim to comply with CE guidelines to the 
highest degree. If natural materials or standardized plastics must be utilized to 
enable circularity to persist, product differentiation and the perception of 
aesthetics may be also required to change depending on extant social norms; (e.g. 
slim form with sleek finishes may be renounced for improved durability or use of 
recycled materials). Cox (2013) highlights that “significant psychological, 
emotional and social factors which underpin the rapid churn of products in the 

 
 
modern throwaway society” (p.27), turn the perspective back to the consumer. 
What is the consumer role in closing the loop for a CE? 
In modest cases, new circular principles may be implemented and disguised 
behind the scenes, while the customer facing product or service remains 
unaffected. This would be a technological silver-bullet solution. However, given 
the predominant linearity throughout the economy and the often-prescribed 
transition from ownership to access models for a CE, it is conceivable that 
increasingly circular business models and products may look, feel, or behave 
differently. For example, consumers may need to e.g.: adopt alternative 
consumption patterns such as product-service-systems (PSS), value natural or 
recycled materials, or commit to returning products to their manufacturer. The EU 
has also acknowledged the importance to understand consumer acceptance 
within the Circular Action Plan Framework (European Commission, 2015), 
supporting an expansive behavioral study on consumer engagement in the circular 
economy. However, this study was limited to a population survey of repairability 
and durability preferences, unable to deliver comprehensive assessment of the 
consumer role and acceptance from a more encompassing standpoint (Cerulli-
Harms et al., 2018).  Hence, this paper seeks to employ the theoretical lens of 
social practices to provide contextual dimensions to extend the understanding of 
the circular consumer.  
Social practice theory (SPT) takes a step back from the individual as the central 
focus (Reckwitz, 2002), and employs a meso - macro perspective to understand 
the behavior of everyday consumption (Spaargaren, 2003; Shove, 2004; Shove and 
Walker, 2010). Practices are characterized as routinized behaviors (Reckwitz, 
2002) performed by ‘practitioner’ agents which are influenced, not only by the 
agent’s cognition, but the alignment of contextual factors, contained in three core 
elements: materials—e.g. artefacts, tools, infrastructures, technologies; 
competence—e.g. know-how, skills, understanding;  and meanings— e.g. social 
significance, symbols, aspirations (Shove and Walker, 2007; Røpke, 2009; Shove, 
Pantzar and Watson, 2012). Spatial and temporal dimensions are considered, 
(Schor, 1993; Southerton, 2003, 2006) along with the interlinkages of elements 
(Shove and Walker, 2010), as consumption is shift to the performance of practices 
(Spaargaren, 2003), (e.g. doing laundry, in your home, in the morning; rather than 
consuming detergent, water, electricity, machine-bearings, and clothing-fibers.) 
From this perspective, “…it is the engagement in the practice… that explains the 
nature and process of consumption” (Warde, 2005, p.138). If innovative products 
or new social ideologies are introduced, they may not alone be successful in 

 
 
joining the practice, if other elements are not well aligned, e.g. infrastructure, 
skills, aspirations (Shove, Pantzar and Watson, 2012).  
Consequently, SPT has become a promising lens for investigating sustainability 
transitions and the CE (McMeekin and Southerton, 2012; Mylan, 2015; Hobson et 
al., 2018). As the CE suggests a different relationship with consumption than 
today—changes in practices and underlying factors may occur. Additionally, the 
servitization of products converges with SPT, as the result-oriented nature of PSS 
(cf. Tukker 2015) aligns well with the conceptualization of practices. Therefore, we 
suggest that SPT provides a suitable frame to further investigate the consumer 
role in the circular economy. 
This paper contributes to the conceptual knowledge gap, by first reviewing the CE 
literature following the review method of Tranfield, Denyer, and Smart (2003) with 
related keywords e.g. consumer, acceptance, implications and perspectives, to 
take stock of the current consumer acceptance discourse, based on qualitative 
content analysis (Mayring, 2014) and (1) collate and categorize CE design 
principles that may affect consumer acceptance. (2) These CE principles are 
qualitatively analyzed to reveal latent consumer implications for different product 
types, stepwise along the consumption stages (Evans 2016) through the lens of 
Social Practice Theory (Shove 2010). (3) A typology of consumer acceptance 
dimensions is developed and applied to CE business model mechanisms and 
design principles. These perspectives provide insight into the suitability of circular 
products and services to meet the needs and expectations of consumers. 
Keywords 
Circular Economy, Circular Economy Business Model, Consumer Acceptance, 
Enablers, Barriers, Social Practice Theory 
References  
Bocken, N. M. P. et al. (2016) ‘Product design and business model strategies for a 
circular economy’, Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering. Taylor 
& Francis, 1015, pp. 1–12. doi: 10.1080/21681015.2016.1172124. 
Borrello, M. et al. (2017) ‘Consumers’ perspective on circular economy strategy 
for reducing food waste’, Sustainability (Switzerland), 9(1). doi: 
10.3390/su9010141. 

 
 
Braungart, M., McDonough, W. and Bollinger, A. (2007) ‘Cradle-to-cradle design: 
creating healthy emissions - a strategy for eco-effective product and system 
design’, Journal of Cleaner Production. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2006.08.003. 
Camacho-otero, J., Boks, C. and Pettersen, I. N. (2018) ‘Consumption in the Circular 
Economy : A Literature Review’. doi: 10.3390/su10082758. 
EMF (2012) Towards the Circular Economy, Ellen MacArthur Foundation. Available 
at: https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/publications/towards-the-
circular-economy-vol-1-an-economic-and-business-rationale-for-an-
accelerated-transition (Accessed: 11 November 2018). 
European Commission (2015). Communication from the Commission to the 
European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social 
Committee and the Committee of the Regions – Closing the loop – An EU 
Action 
Plan 
for 
the 
Circular 
Economy, 
http://ec.europa.eu/environment/circular-economy/index_en. 
htm. 
[Accessed 12.11.2018]. 
Geisendorf, S. and Pietrulla, F. (2017) ‘The circular economy and circular economic 
concepts — a literature analysis and redefinition’, Thunderbird International 
Business Review, 60(5), pp. 771–782. doi: 10.1002/tie.21924. 
Geissdoerfer, M. et al. (2018) ‘Business models and supply chains for the circular 
economy’, 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
doi: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.04.159. 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C. and Ulgiati, S. (2016) ‘A review on circular economy: The 
expected transition to a balanced interplay of environmental and economic 
systems’, Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 114, pp. 11–32. doi: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.09.007. 
Hobson, K. et al. (2018) ‘Systems of practice and the Circular Economy: 
Transforming mobile phone product service systems’, Environmental 
Innovation and Societal Transitions. Elsevier, 26(March 2017), pp. 147–157. 
doi: 10.1016/j.eist.2017.04.002. 
Hofmann, F. (2019) ‘Circular Business Models: Business approach as driver or 
obstructer of sustainability transitions?’, Journal of Cleaner Production. 
Elsevier Ltd, 224, pp. 361–374. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.03.115. 
Kirchherr, J. et al. (2017) ‘Breaking the Barriers to the Circular Economy’, 
(October). 
Available 
at: 
https://www.uu.nl/sites/default/files/breaking_the_barriers_to_the_circul
ar_economy_white_paper_web.pdf. 
Korhonen, J., Honkasalo, A. and Seppälä, J. (2018) ‘Circular Economy: The Concept 
and its Limitations’, Ecological Economics. Elsevier B.V., 143(January), pp. 
37–46. doi: 10.1016/j.ecolecon.2017.06.041. 

 
 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Gold, S. and Bocken, N. M. P. (2018) ‘A Review and Typology of 
Circular Economy Business Model Patterns’, 23(1), pp. 36–61. doi: 
10.1111/jiec.12763. 
Mayring, P. (2014) Qualitative content analysis: Theoretical foundation, basic 
procedures 
and 
software 
solution, 
Forum 
Qualitative 
Sozialforschung/Forum: Qualitative Social Research. Klagenfurt. Available at: 
http://nbn-resolving.de/urn:nbn:de:0168-ssoar-395173. 
McMeekin, A. and Southerton, D. (2012) ‘Sustainability transitions and final 
consumption: Practices and socio-technical systems’, Technology Analysis 
and 
Strategic 
Management, 
24(4), 
pp. 
345–361. 
doi: 
10.1080/09537325.2012.663960. 
Merli, R., Preziosi, M. and Acampora, A. (2018) ‘How do scholars approach the 
circular economy? A systematic literature review’, Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 
Elsevier 
Ltd, 
178, 
pp. 
703–722. 
doi: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.12.112. 
Mylan, J. (2015) ‘Understanding the diffusion of Sustainable Product-Service 
Systems: Insights from the sociology of consumption and practice theory’, 
Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 97, pp. 13–20. doi: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2014.01.065. 
Planing, P. (2015) ‘Business Model Innovation in a Circular Economy Reasons for 
Non-Acceptance of Circular Business Models’, Open Journal of Business 
Model Innovation, pp. 1–11. 
Reckwitz, A. (2002) ‘Toward a Theory of Social Practices’, European Journal of 
Social Theory, 5(2), pp. 243–263. doi: 10.1177/13684310222225432. 
Reike, D., Vermeulen, W. J. V. and Witjes, S. (2018) ‘The circular economy: New or 
Refurbished as CE 3.0? — Exploring Controversies in the Conceptualization 
of the Circular Economy through a Focus on History and Resource Value 
Retention Options’, Resources, Conservation and Recycling. Elsevier, 
135(November 2017), pp. 246–264. doi: 10.1016/j.resconrec.2017.08.027. 
Røpke, I. (2009) ‘Theories of practice - New inspiration for ecological economic 
studies on consumption’, Ecological Economics. Elsevier B.V., 68(10), pp. 
2490–2497. doi: 10.1016/j.ecolecon.2009.05.015. 
Schor, J. (1993) The Overworked American: The Unexpected Decline of Leisure. 
New York: Basic Books. doi: 10.1177/027046769301300454. 
Shove, E. (2004) ‘Efficiency and Consumption’, Energy and Environment, 15(6), pp. 
1053–1065. 

 
 
Shove, E., Pantzar, M. and Watson, M. (2012) The Social Dynamics of Practice: 
Everyday Life and How It Changes, Sage. London: Sage Publications. 
Available at: http://www.amazon.ca/exec/obidos/redirect?tag=citeulike09-
20&amp;path=ASIN/1845206835%5Cnhttp://www.amazon.de/exec/obido
s/redirect?tag=citeulike01-
21&amp;path=ASIN/1845206835%5Cnhttp://www.amazon.fr/exec/obidos
/redirect?tag=citeulike06-21&amp;path=ASIN/18. 
Shove, E. and Walker, G. (2007) ‘CAUTION! Transitions ahead: Politics, practice, 
and sustainable transition management’, Environment and Planning A, 
39(4), pp. 763–770. doi: 10.1068/a39310. 
Shove, E. and Walker, G. (2010) ‘Governing transitions in the sustainability of 
everyday life’, Research Policy. Elsevier B.V., 39(4), pp. 471–476. doi: 
10.1016/j.respol.2010.01.019. 
Southerton, D. (2003) ‘“ Squeezing Time ” Allocating practices , coordinating 
networks and scheduling society’, Time & Society, 12(1), pp. 5–25. 
Southerton, D. (2006) ‘Analysing the temporal organization of daily life: Social 
constraints, practices and their allocation’, Sociology, 40(3), pp. 435–454. 
doi: 10.1177/0038038506063668. 
Spaargaren, G. (2003) ‘Sustainable consumption: A theoretical and environmental 
policy perspective’, Society and Natural Resources, 16, pp. 687–701. doi: 
10.1080/08941920309192. 
Su, B. et al. (2013) ‘A review of the circular economy in China: Moving from 
rhetoric to implementation’, Journal of Cleaner Production. doi: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2012.11.020. 
Tranfield, D., Denyer, D. and Smart, P. (2003) ‘Towards a Methodology for 
Developing Evidence-Informed Management Knowledge by Means of 
Systematic Review’, British Journal of Management. doi: 10.1111/1467-
8551.00375. 
Tukker, A. (2015) ‘Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy - 
A review’, Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 97, pp. 76–91. doi: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.049. 
Urbinati, A., Chiaroni, D. and Chiesa, V. (2017) ‘Towards a new taxonomy of 
circular economy business models’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 168. doi: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.09.047. 
Warde, A. (2005) ‘Consumption and theories of practice’, Journal of Consumer 
Culture, 5(2), pp. 131–153. doi: 10.1177/1469540505053090. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
What’s the “use” of circular business 
models ? 
 
Lara Anne Hale1,*  
 
1Copenhagen Business School 
 
*lh.msc@cbs.dk 
 
Extended abstract  
This paper investigates the problem of developing circular economy business 
models and the challenges facing the building industry in practice. Despite the 
recent attention to circular economy in both research and practice, applications 
to the building industry are falling short (Geldermans, 2016; Ghisellini, P., Ripa, M., 
& Ulgiati, S. 2018; Nußholz, Rasmussen, & Milios, 2019). The aim of this research 
is to examine the opportunities and barriers to the implementation of circular 
economy in the building sector, also referred to as circular construction. In 
particular, building organizations have recently demonstrated an interest in 
innovating circular business models in order to transition their cradle-to-grave 
business to circularity. Recognition of this interest arose from ethnographic 
research in the building organization VELUX A/S, a company best known for its 
roof windows, but also deeply engaged in the research into and development of 
sustainable buildings. The research was then furthered with two workshops – one 
internal and one external – and secondary data such as circular building materials 
and events concerning circular construction. The research finds that – akin to 
other industries – the building industry places an inordinate amount of attention 
on the reuse and recycling of material and little attention on extending the use of 
buildings (and thus their materials). This paper argues that one of the major 
shortfalls of current circular economy approaches in building is a lack of business 
models valuing the use phase of buildings, given these long-lasting products’ life 
span.  
Theoretical background 

 
 
Theory development on sustainable business models including a circular economy 
approach is expanding (Lacy & Rutqvist, 2015; Bocken et al., 2016; Simons, 2017). 
Scholars utilize different definitions of circular economy that may consider the 
material dimensions, or economic aspects; but for the purposes of this paper, the 
Ellen McArthur Foundation (EMF) definition is used: ‘A Circular Economy is an 
economic and industrial system where material loops are closed and slowed and 
value creation is aimed for at every chain in the system’ (EMF, 2013), a system 
which ‘aims to redefine growth, focusing on positive society-wide benefits’ (EMF, 
2019). Thus far, the focus on circular economy business models has tended 
towards easily handle-able and transferable products, as opposed to durable 
goods (Leising, Qvist, & Bocken, 2018). Part of the problem could be the tension 
between economic and social or ecological valuation, because there is more 
economic activity involved in shorter-lived products that can be transformed into 
new products for consumption. Following these views, Flynn and Hacking (2019) 
describe the ideological conflict arising from circular economy standards within a 
neoliberal governance system. Indeed these material input and output focused 
valuations can reduce (or even eliminate) waste and improve efficiencies (and 
global trade), but they neglect a true life-cycle approach and potentially encourage 
design for planned obsolescence.  
In theory we can see this reflected in the consideration of time as a factor for 
sustainable business models: As Lozano (2018) underlines in his review of 
sustainable business model literature: ‘The time dimension is conspicuously 
missing in SBMs discourses’ (p.4). Indeed the tendency of research on circular 
economy for building tends to focus on two distinct time frames, pre-construction 
and re-use, while glossing over the use phase (e.g. Leising, Qvist, & Bocken, 2018; 
Nuñez-Cacho et al., 2018; Nußholz, Rasmussen, & Milios, 2019). In their literature 
review of circular economy for buildings, Hossain and Ng (2018), find that most 
research that considers circular economy for building either consider cradle-to-
grave (planning to demolition) or cradle-to-gate (planning to construction 
approval), and only 2% consider cradle-to-cradle (planning to next integration) 
(p.767). They also point to economic and social sustainability, fundamentally tied 
to the use phase of buildings: ‘Sustainability assessment cannot be fully evaluated 
without considering the economic and social aspects, and most of the studies did 
not take those aspects into account’ (Hossain & Ng, 2018, p.776). 
Methodology 
This research uses qualitative methodology, namely a one-year ethnographic 
study at VELUX headquarters and two industry workshops – one internal to VELUX 

 
 
architects and the other within the 2018 Active House Alliance Symposium. The 
ethnographic study involved office presence 1-3 times per week between January 
2018 and January 2019, and it included observation of daily activities, 
informational meetings, and internal workshops and events, which were 
documented in note taking (Strauss & Corbin, 1998). These ethnographies include: 
49 distinctive documentations of meetings, observations, emerging questions, and 
interactions; 40 internal communication documents; and 19 secondary articles 
and documents linked to these ethnographies.  
The first workshop took place on the 25th of October 2018 in Zurich, Switzerland, 
and involved approximately 25 VELUX architects from VELUX sales offices around 
the world, but primarily from Europe. During this workshop, architects were asked 
to identify steps in the process of a building, from ideation to completion. Later, 
when they had identified stages of input, process, and output, they were asked to 
identify what the outputs related to VELUX products are; in other words, what the 
value during the use phase of the building is. The second workshop took place on 
the 8th of November 2018 in Lecco, Italy, and involved about 20 participants from 
the Active House Symposium, which ran from the 7th to the 8th of November. These 
participants included architects, engineers, and professional house builders, who 
were asked to rank aspects of Building Information Management (BIM) (a tool for 
detailed planning for the life cycle of a building) by sustainability importance, 
professional practicality, and economic viability. Participants could rank levels 1-3 
for each of these categories, with one being the top priority, and then scaling down 
to the third most prioritized aspects. The aim was to identify how a design tool 
that can be combined with life-cycle approaches (such as life-cycle assessment, 
LCA) to design for circular construction might imbed a variety of building aspect 
prioritizations in the industry. These rankings were then compiled into a 
spreadsheet, from which the BIM aspects were given an average rank and 
weighted average rank for each category. 
Initial Findings 
To give an impression of the ethnographic data, a table is first presented with 
some of the quotes and notations derived during the ethnography period. This is 
followed by the outcomes from Workshops 1 and 2, which are briefly discussed. 
 
 
 

 
 
Table 1: Ethnographic sample references 
 
 
Table 2: Workshop 1 Use-phase values 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Table 3: BIM aspects and top rankings 
 
 
 

 
 
 
The sample ethnographic references in Table 1 are meant to give an indication of 
the kinds of notes developed over time. One main observation crosscutting 
internal and external meetings and events is the rising popularity of circular 
construction that appears to come at odds with the status quo of construction 
sector business models. Simultaneous to attempts to generate new business from 
trade activity based on reusing and recycling business materials, there is an 
increasing concern for (and helplessness about) the use (or in technical terms, the 
operations) of buildings. The initial findings from Workshop 1 (Table 2) 
demonstrate the use phase value that could potentially be commensurated and 
captured in circular business models for building. Further, the initial findings from 
Workshop 2 (Table 3) show that building professionals do not rank operation and 
maintenance, the factor most linked to the use phase, as the most important for 
sustainability (landing instead at fourth place out of the factors). However, they 
do rank it as the number one most practical factor, as well as the second most 
economical factor. These findings underscore a disparity between the value placed 
on buildings in use and the reflection of this value in current business models for 
building, wherein economic value capture is heavily focused on the production 
phase. But they also indicate that there is a practical and economic opportunity to 
develop business models around the durable use of buildings. 
 
 

 
 
Discussion and Conclusion 
This research sheds light on the neglected use phase of durable products, such as 
buildings, in circular economy business models. Although circular economy aims 
to approach sustainability from a life cycle perspective, not all life cycle phases are 
considered equally in business models. Yet, this blind spot to value in the use 
phase highly impacts human health and environmental sustainability, several 
aspects of which are elucidated in the results in Table 2. And these aspects could 
be practically and economically addressed, as highlighted in Table 3, through 
circular business models that incorporate value from the use phase – for example 
with the use as life cycle tools such as BIM combined with LCA. Leising, Qvist, and 
Bocken, (2018) explain the difficulty of reimagining value in buildings due to the 
multifarious partners, materials, and life spans involved. But this is not 
disconnected from the transition from product to service economy. Perhaps the 
difference for durable product business models is that the service becomes about 
perpetuating products for higher quality over longer time spans through the paid 
service of those products. 
Ultimately this is a problem of time and economic models. For durable goods, such 
a buildings, it is easy to imagine that the financial value capture will be more 
tangible for companies attempting circular economy if their business focuses on 
the inputs and/or outputs, especially when it falls within a time span wherein they 
can plan their participation. Yet in terms of sustainability, there is some irony here: 
the business models that could make building companies more sustainable in the 
long run are dropped to the wayside when companies consider they might not last 
long enough for the value to be relevant. Thus, the challenge is not just the circular 
flow of materials through the life of businesses, but further into the care of 
materials through the potentially long life of the products. 
Keywords 
circular construction; circular business models; life cycle; use phase; valuation. 
References 
Bocken, N. M., De Pauw, I., Bakker, C., & van der Grinten, B. (2016). Product design 
and business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial 
and 
Production 
Engineering, 
33(5), 
308–320. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21681015.2016.1172124 

 
 
EMF, 2013. Towards the Circular Economy - Opportunities for the Consumer 
Goods 
Sector. 
Ellen 
Macarthur 
Foundation. 
Available 
from: 
www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/business/reports. 
[Accessed 
30th 
January 2019] 
EMF, 2019. Concept: What is a circular economy? A framewrk for economy that is 
restorative and regenerative by design. Ellen Macarthur Foundation. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/circular-
economy/concept. [Accessed 30th January 2019] 
Flynn, A., & Hacking, N. (2019). Setting standards for a circular economy: A 
challenge too far for neoliberal environmental governance? Journal of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
212, 
1256–1267. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.11.257 
Geldermans, R.J. (2016). Design for Change and Circularity – Accommodating 
Circular Material & Product Flows in Construction. Energy Procedia, 
September 2016 (96), 301-311. 
Ghisellini, 
P., 
Ripa, 
M., 
and 
Ulgiati, 
S. 
(2018). 
Exploring environmental and economic costs and benefits of 
a circular economy approach to the construction and demolition sector. A 
literature review. Journal of Cleaner Production, March 2018 (178), 618-643.  
Hossain, M. U., & Ng, S. T. (2018). Critical consideration of buildings’ 
environmental impact assessment towards adoption of circular economy: 
An analytical review. Journal of Cleaner Production, 205, 763–780. 
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.09.120 
Lacy, P., & Rutqvist, J. (2015). Waste to wealth : The circular economy advantage. 
Basingstoke, GB: Palgrave Macmillan. 
Leising, E., Quist, J., & Bocken, N. (2018). Circular Economy in the building sector: 
Three cases and a collaboration tool. Journal of Cleaner Production, 176, 
976–989. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.12.010 
Lozano, R. (2018). Sustainable business models: Providing a more holistic 
perspective. Business Strategy and the Environment, (April), 1-8. 
http://doi.org/10.1002/bse.2059 
Nuñez-Cacho, P., Górecki, J., Molina-Moreno, V., & Corpas-Iglesias, F. A. (2018). 
What gets measured, gets done: Development of a Circular Economy 
measurement scale for building industry. Sustainability (Switzerland), 10(7). 
http://doi.org/10.3390/su10072340 
Nußholz, J. L. K., Nygaard Rasmussen, F., & Milios, L. (2019). Circular building 
materials: Carbon saving potential and the role of business model innovation 
and public policy. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 141(October 
2018), 308–316. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2018.10.036 

 
 
Simons, M. (2017). Comparing Industrial Cluster Cases to Define Upgrade Business 
Models for a Circular Economy. In S. N. Grösser, A. Reyes-Lecuona, & G. 
Granholm (Eds.), Dynamics of Long-Life Assets: From Technology Adaptation 
to Upgrading the Business Model (pp. 327–356). New York, NY: Springer 
International Publishing. http://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-45438-2 
Strauss, A. L., & Corbin J.M. (1998). Basics of qualitative research: techniques and 
procedures for developing grounded theory, 2nd edition. Thousand Oaks: 
Sage Publications. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS MODELS, 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT  
& CORPORATE STRATEGIC 
MANAGEMENT 
TRACK II 

 
 
Track II: New Business Models, Sustainable Development & 
Corporate Strategic Management 
 
Chairs: Romana Rauter1, Yuliya Snihur2, and Christian Nielsen3 
1 University of Graz, Austria; 2Toulouse Business School, France, 3Aalborg 
University, Denmark 
 
 
Sustainable business models are intensively discussed as a means to foster a 
necessary transition towards more sustainable societies. On the one hand, a 
multitude of examples of business models with a sustainable core, like circular 
business models and asset-sharing business models, exist. On the other hand, 
there are also many examples of “regular” business models that are being tuned 
towards higher levels of sustainability, for example through the use of 
partnerships, or other resource-minimizing choices. 
The successful transition towards more sustainable businesses is dependent upon 
a number of factors. Amongst them, we highlight the relevance of two factors 
from a corporate management perspective: a) the content-based dimension 
referring to the inclusion of sustainability goals in corporate strategy; and b) the 
time dimension referring to the timeline of implementation of these goals, 
including questions about scalability and longevity. Both factors relate to strategic 
management issues, including a future vision of success as seen from the 
management perspective, potentially offering a “set of guidelines that determines 
decisions into the future” (Mintzberg, 1978: 935). The corporate strategy decision 
to invest in a more sustainable business version of the existing business model(s), 
or to develop new sustainable business models from ground up, is a complex 
matter. Our point is that building sustainable and scalable business models rests 
upon strategic management decision-making within the firm, as does the 
subsequent management of the business model portfolio. 
References / Further Reading 
Baumgartner, R.J. and Rauter, R. (2017). Strategic perspectives of corporate 
sustainability management to develop a sustainable organization. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 140, 81-92. 

 
 
Dentchev, N., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, 
R., Nyberg, T., Tangh, X., van Hoof, B. & Jonker, J. (2018). Embracing the 
variety of sustainable business models: A prolific field of research and a 
future research agenda. Journal of Cleaner Production, 194(1), 695-703. 
Nielsen, C. and Lund, M. (2018). Building Scalable Business Models. MIT Sloan 
Management Review, 59(2), 64-69.  
Mintzberg, H. (1978). Patterns in Strategy Formation. Management Science, 24(9), 
934-948. 
Snihur, Y. and Tarzijan, J. (2018). Managing complexity in a multi-business-model 
organization. Long Range Planning, 51(1), 50-63. 
Snihur Y. and Wiklund, J. Searching for Innovation: Product, Process, and Business 
Model Innovations and Search Behavior in Established Firms. Long Range 
Planning (accepted for publication). 
 
 

 
 
A Multi-level Perspective on Business 
Model Transitions 
Allsafe and RetailCorp’s Evolutionary Journeys 
 
Oliver Laasch1,*, Frank Boons2, Claus Dierksmeier3 
 
1University of Nottingham Ningbo China; 2University of Manchester; 
3University of Tübingen 
 
*oliver.laasch@nottingham.edu.cn 
 
Abstract 
Transitions towards ‘better’ business models have long been a focus of alternative 
business model research. Such research to date has mostly focussed on transition 
outcomes, in the form of the aspired business models to be created. However, we 
know little about the multi-transition journeys leading to such outcomes. We 
propose a mid-range theory for such study by bringing together a multi-level 
perspective on socio-technical transitions and a social practices perspective on 
business models. We illustrate the resulting multi-level perspective on business 
model transitions through the automobile supplier Allsafe’s and the multinational 
RetailCorp’s three-decade business model transitions. Our findings explain the 
occurrence and shape of business model transitions through the emergence of 
new dominant practices reconfiguring the business model: First, in an exogenous 
emergence, such practices migrate into business models from external 
developments: For instance, Japanese manufacturing practices drove Allsafe’s 
past transition from an automobile parts trader to an industrial manufacturing 
company, RetailCorp’s eco-efficient value creation was driven by practices pushed 
by the Carbon Disclosure Project. Secondly, endogenous emergence transpires 
from protected niches inside an organization: Self-bred humanistic management 
practices fuelled Allsafe’s most recent transition; unique practices of corporate 
responsibility were indispensable to their latest transition. We propose a future 
research agenda for a multi-level perspective on business model transitions. 

 
 
Keywords 
Business model transitions, alternative business models, theories of practice 
Introduction 
Transitions towards ‘better’ business models have long been a focus of alternative 
business model research (e.g. Schaltegger et al., 2016, Randles and Laasch, 2016, 
Laasch, 2018a). Such research to date has mostly focussed on transition outcomes 
in the form of the aspired business models. However, we know little about the 
evolutionary journeys leading to business model transitions or about how 
sequences of business model transitions build up one on another. 
We intend to contribute to the conference track “New business models, 
sustainable development, and corporate strategic management” chaired by 
Romana Rauter, Yuliya Snihur, and Christian Nielsen. We believe our emphasis on 
(strategic) business model transitions in existing organizations makes this paper a 
suitable contribution to this track. Also, the discussion and implications of strategic 
niche management as the strategizing practice underlying such transitions 
appears highly relevant to this session. 
Conceptual Framework: Multi-Level perspective on Business 
Model Transitions 
We propose a mid-range theory for the study of sequences of business model 
transitions by bringing together a multi-level perspective on socio-technical 
transitions (Geels, 2002, Geels, 2011, Geels and Schot, 2007) and a processual 
social practices perspective on business models (Boons and Laasch, 2019, Boons 
et al., 2018, Feuls, 2018). 
Through a practice lens, business models are understood as unique bundles of 
practices (Feuls, 2018, Boons et al., 2018) of value proposition, creation, exchange, 
and capture enacting according the dominant organizational value logic (Laasch, 
2018b). As conceptualized in Figure , Business model transitions (both occurrence 
and form) can be explained through a multi-level perspective. When novel 
practices have matured sufficiently in protected niches, they may migrate into the 
business model regime of dominant practices. For this to happen, the existing 
bundle of business model practices has been loosened or opened up to integrated 

 
 
these new practices by higher level ‘landscape’ pressures, such as legislative 
pressures, shifts in consumer demands, or institutionalized industry practices. 
Given the entanglement of practices in these bundles, interweaving a new core 
practice creates processes of realignment changing also existing practices of value 
proposition, creation, exchange, and capture. 
[INSERT FIGURE 1 ABOUT HERE] 
Methods: Oral History 
We conducted two comparative in-depth case studies with intensive on-site 
immersions at both Allsafe and RetailCorp (anonymized). Core to the data 
collection were oral history focus sessions in which groups of long-time employees 
both drew and narrated the company’s business model transitions over time. 
Additional interviews with 144 individuals (72 per company) provided a nuanced 
and multi-facetted image of business model transitions. Coding involved 
harmonizing the groups’ drawings, and resolving contradictions and ambiguities 
through triangulation with interviews and further empirical material (see Table 1). 
[INSERT TABLE 1 ABOUT HERE] 
Illustrative Case Studies 
We illustrate the resulting multi-level perspective on business model transitions 
through two complementary case studies: 
Allsafe. As illustrated in Figure 2Error! Reference source not found., the a
utomobile supplier Allsafe has undergone a thirty-year journey of regular business 
model transitions. Early business model transitions were driven by the integration 
of Japanese Production practices, a later one by disruptive humanistic 
management practices, and the most recent ongoing transitions by sustainability 
practices related to dematerialization. Each transition was driven by a realignment 
of the business model practices bundle, to accommodate the new core practice. 
New practices in the business models can be considered antecedents of the 
transition. 
[INSERT FIGURE 2 ABOUT HERE] 

 
 
RetailCorp. Figure  illustrates how, ever since 1991, the global RetailCorp has 
periodically experienced the embedding of corporate responsibility sustainability 
practices as part of business model transitions. This integration of such practices 
into the business model was always accompanied by a deliberate strategic 
business model change episode orchestrated by RetailCorp’s high-level 
leadership. Unlike in Allsafe, these new practices’ embedding into the business 
model can be considered consequences of the business model transition. 
[INSERT FIGURE 3 ABOUT HERE] 
 
Findings: Exogenous-Endogenous Origins; Push-Pull Emergence 
From our empirical work we came to distinguish the four types of transition 
patterns illustrated in Table 2. 
[INSERT TABLE 2 ABOUT HERE] 
Our findings explain some business model transitions (particularly in the Allsafe 
case) through the emergence of new dominant practices reconfiguring the 
business model. We call this practice-push transitions: First, in an exogenous 
emergence, new practices migrate into business models from external trends: 
Japanese manufacturing practices drove Allsafe’s past transition from an 
automobile parts trader to an industrial manufacturing company. Secondly, 
endogenous emergence transpires from protected niches created inside an 
existing business model: Humanistic management practices that fuelled Allsafe’s 
recent transition. 
Conversely, in RetailCorp, novel practices do not explain the occurrence of a 
business model transitions. Practices related to corporate responsibility and 
sustainability, however, significantly changed the shape of a new emerging 
business model’s bundles of value proposition, creation, exchange, and capture as 
they were pulled into it as part of the transition. We call this practice-pull 
transitions. As in Allsafe, such practices emerged either exogenously (e.g. eco-
efficient value creation was driven by practices pushed by the Carbon Disclosure 
Project) or endogenously (e.g. ; unique food waste practices, became part of 
RetailCorp’s latest business model). 

 
 
Conclusions, Discussions, Future Research 
We have conceptualized a multi-level perspective on business model transitions 
and illustrated how such a perspective can be employed to analyze transitional 
patterns. In the following we will briefly mention salient discussions and 
implications. 
Evolutionary patterns. The original multi-level perspective on socio-technological 
transitions has become an important mid-range theory to identify varieties of 
transitional types, patterns, dynamics, and pathways (e.g. Geels and Kemp, 2007, 
Geels and Schot, 2007). Similarly, our multi-level perspective on business model 
transitions may serve for similarly important insights for business model 
transitions, particularly in the context of environmental sustainability transitions 
(Elzen et al., 2003, Geels, 2011, Loorbach and Wijsman, 2013, Markard et al., 2012, 
Shove and Walker, 2010). 
Strategic niche management. A multi-level perspective on business model 
transitions suggest a key role for strategic niche management (Kemp et al., 1998, 
Schot and Geels, 2008, Sushandoyo and Magnusson, 2014) to foster business 
model transitions. Such strategic niche management involves the creation of 
protected spaces for nurturing to maturity, practices meant to become parts of 
future business models. Such strategic niche management as a process of business 
model innovation may serve as a middle ground between highly controlled 
business model innovation modes, and their experimentation-based counter parts 
(e.g. Brunswicker et al., 2013, Sosna et al., 2010, Foss and Saebi, 2017). It and 
connects the business model innovation discussion with the burgeoning field of 
strategy as practice (Jarzabkowski, 2004, Jarzabkowski and Spee, 2009, 
Kornberger and Clegg, 2011, Seidl and Whittington, 2014, Vaara and Whittington, 
2012, Whittington, 1996). 
Business model evolution. So far the relationship between multiple-business 
models has typically been discussed in a parallel fashion (e.g. Snihur and Tarzijan, 
2018, Casadesus-Masanell and Tarziján, 2012). However, the evolutionary lens 
(e.g. Bohnsack et al., 2014, Demil and Lecocq, 2010, Schaltegger et al., 2016) of 
the multi-level perspective, suggests that there always is a legacy of pre-existing 
business models from which new business models evolve, incrementally adding to 
pre-existing business model attributes. The tendency of business model 
innovation and change literature to consider the last business model is prone to 
miss insights that can be gained from a longer sequential, historic analysis (Bansal 

 
 
and DesJardine, 2014, Bansal et al., 2014, Longoni and Cagliano, 2016, Orlikowski, 
1996, Thornton and Ocasio, 1999, Goehrung, 1982, Kroezen and Heugens, 2018). 
 References 
BANSAL, P. & DESJARDINE, M. R. 2014. Business sustainability: It is about time. 
Strategic Organization, 12, 70-78. 
BANSAL, P., GAO, J. & QURESHI, I. 2014. The Extensiveness of corporate social and 
environmental commitment across firms over time. Organization Studies, 
35, 949-966. 
BOHNSACK, R., PINKSE, J. & KOLK, A. 2014. Business models for sustainable 
technologies: Exploring business model evolution in the case of electric 
vehicles. Research Policy, 43, 284-300. 
BOONS, F. & LAASCH, O. 2019. Business models for sustainable development: A 
process perspective. Journal of Business Models. 
BOONS, F., LAASCH, O. & DIERKSMEIER, C. 2018. Assembling organizational 
practices: The evolving humanistic business model of Allsafe. 6th Asian SME 
Conference. Tokyo. 
BRUNSWICKER, S., WRIGLEY, C. & BUCOLO, S. 2013. Business Model 
Experimentation: What is the Role of Design-Led Prototyping in Developing 
Novel Business Models? The experimental nature of new venture creation 
innovation, technology, and knowledge management. Berlin: Springer 
International. 
CASADESUS-MASANELL, R. & TARZIJÁN, J. 2012. When one business model isn´t 
enough. Harvard Business Review, 90, 132-137. 
DEMIL, B. & LECOCQ, X. 2010. Business model evolution: In search of dynamic 
consistency. Long Range Planning, 43, 227-246. 
ELZEN, B., GEELS, F. W. & GREEN, K. 2003. System innovation and the transition to 
sustainability: Theory, evidence and policy, Cheltenham, Edward Elgar 
Publishing. 
FEULS, M. 2018. Reconceptualizing business models as practices nets. Academy of 
Management Annual Meeting. Chicago. 
FOSS, N. J. & SAEBI, T. 2017. Fifteen years of research on business model 
innovation How far have we come, and where should we go? Journal of 
Management, 43, 200–227. 
GEELS, F. W. 2002. Technological transitions as evolutionary reconfiguration 
processes: A multi-level perspective and a case-study. Research Policy, 31, 
1257-1274. 

 
 
GEELS, F. W. 2011. The multi-level perspective on sustainability transitions: 
Responses to seven criticisms. Environmental Innovation and Societal 
Transitions, 1, 24-40. 
GEELS, F. W. & KEMP, R. 2007. Dynamics in socio-technical systems: Typology of 
change processes and contrasting case studies. Technology in Society, 29, 
441-455. 
GEELS, F. W. & SCHOT, J. 2007. Typology of sociotechnical transition pathways. 
Research Policy, 36, 399-417. 
GOEHRUNG, J. L. 1982. Perspective on business--a craftperson's tradition: A 
prospective business model for contemporary craftspeople based on the 
historical craftsperson's tradition in colonial America (Thesis), Bozeman, 
Montana State University. 
JARZABKOWSKI, P. 2004. Strategy as practice: Recursiveness, adaptation and 
practices-in-use. Organization Studies, 25, 529–60. 
JARZABKOWSKI, P. & SPEE, P. 2009. Strategy‐as‐practice: A review and future 
directions for the field. International Journal of Management Reviews, 11, 
69-95. 
KEMP, R., SCHOT, J. & HOOGMA, R. 1998. Regime shifts to sustainability through 
Processes of niche formation: The approach of strategic niche management. 
Technology Analysis & Strategic Management, 10, 175-195. 
KORNBERGER, M. & CLEGG, S. 2011. Strategy as performative practice: The case 
of Sydney 2030. Strategic Organization, 9, 136-162. 
KROEZEN, J. & HEUGENS, P. 2018. What Is dead may never die: Institutional 
regeneration through logic reemergence in Dutch beer brewing. 
Administrative Science Quarterly. 
LAASCH, O. 2018a. An actor-network perspective on business models: How 'Being 
Responsible' led to incremental, but pervasive change. Long Range Planning, 
[DOI 10.16/j.lrp.2018.04.002]. 
LAASCH, O. 2018b. Beyond the purely commercial business model: Organizational 
value logics and the heterogeneity of sustainability business models. Long 
Range Planning, 51, 158-183. 
LONGONI, A. & CAGLIANO, R. 2016. Sustainable innovativeness and the triple 
bottom line: The role of organizational time perspective. Journal of Business 
Ethics, [DOI: 10.1007/s10551-016-3239-y]. 
LOORBACH, D. & WIJSMAN, K. 2013. Business transition management: Exploring a 
new role for business in sustainability transitions. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 45, 20-28. 
MARKARD, J., RAVEN, R. & TRUFFER, B. 2012. Sustainability transitions: An 
emerging field of research and its prospects. Research Policy, 41, 955-967. 

 
 
ORLIKOWSKI, W. J. 1996. Improvising organizational transformation over time: A 
situated change perspective. Information Systems Research, 7, 63-92. 
RANDLES, S. & LAASCH, O. 2016. Theorising the normative business model (NBM). 
Organization & Environment, 29, 53-73. 
SCHALTEGGER, S., LÜDEKE-FREUND, F. & HANSEN, E. G. 2016. Business models for 
sustainability: A co-evolutionary analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, 
innovation, and transformation. Organization & Environment, 29, 264-289. 
SCHOT, J. & GEELS, F. W. 2008. Strategic niche management and sustainable 
innovation journeys: theory, findings, research agenda, and policy. 
Technology Analysis & Strategic Management, 20, 537-554. 
SEIDL, D. & WHITTINGTON, R. 2014. Enlarging the strategy-as-practice research 
agenda: Towards taller and flatter ontologies. Organization Studies, 35, 
1407-1421. 
SHOVE, E. & WALKER, G. 2010. Governing transitions in the sustainability of 
everyday life. Research Policy, 39, 471-476. 
SNIHUR, Y. & TARZIJAN, J. 2018. Managing complexity in a multi-business-model 
organization. Long Range Planning, 51, 50-63. 
SOSNA, M., TREVNYIO-RODRÍGUEZ, R. N. & VELAMURI, S. R. 2010. Business model 
innovation through trial-and-error learning: The Naturhouse case. Long 
Range Planning, 43, 383-407. 
SUSHANDOYO, D. & MAGNUSSON, T. 2014. Strategic niche management from a 
business perspective: Taking cleaner vehicle technologies from prototype to 
series 
production. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
doi: 
10.1016/j.jclepro.2014.02.059. 
THORNTON, P. H. & OCASIO, W. 1999. Institutional logics and the historical 
contingency of power in organizations: Executive succession in the higher 
education publishing industry, 1958-1990. American Journal of Sociology, 
105, 801-843. 
VAARA, E. & WHITTINGTON, R. 2012. Strategy-as-practice: Taking social practices 
seriously. Academy of Management Annals, 6, 285–336. 
WHITTINGTON, R. 1996. Strategy as practice. Long Range Planning, 29, 731-735. 
 
 
 

 
 
FIGURES AND TABLES 
Figure 1 A multi-level perspective on business model transitions 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Figure 2 Allsafe’s business model evolution 
 
 
 

 
 
Figure 3 RetailCorp’s business model evolution 
 
 
 

 
 
Table 1 Case studies’ baseline information 
 
Allsafe 
RetailCorp 
Type of business 
Automobile Supplier 
Food 
and 
General 
Retailer 
Employees/ 
Revenues 2017 
260/ 62 million Euros 
476,000/ 62.91 billion 
Euros 
Period of evolution 
studied 
1980-2017 
1991-2017 
Individual 
interviews/ 
Interviewees 
72/72 
104/ 72 
Workshops/ 
Participants 
3/15 
4/14 
Additional sources 
Participant 
observation, 
internal 
documents, 
newspaper coverage 
Participant observation, 
internal 
documents, 
annual 
reports/ 
CSR 
reports, 
internal 
magazine, 
newspaper 
coverage 
 
 
Table 2 A typology and examples of business model transition dynamics 
 
Force behind practice emergence 
Push 
Pull 
Origin of practice 
Exogenous 
Allsafe’s Industrial Customization 
model was pushed into existence 
by the adoption of Japanese 
production practices popular in 
the car manufacturing industry 
environment. 
RetailCorp’s Everywhere Retail 
model, depended on energy/ 
carbon-efficient value creation 
practices, promoted by the global 
Carbon Disclosure Project, of which 
RetailCorp became an active 
member. 
Endogenous 
Allsafe’s Humanistic 
Manufacturing model pushed 
into existence by company’s 
unique humanistic organizing 
practices. 
RetailCorp’s Blended Online-Offline 
model was enabled by the loyalty 
created through the home-bred 
practices forming RetailCorp’s 
corporate responsibility strategy. 

 
 
Business models as practice: 
The humanistic business model of allsafe 
Frank Boons1, Oliver Laasch2,*, Claus Dierksmeier3 
 
1University of Manchester; 2University of Nottingham Ningbo China; 
3University of Tübingen 
 
*oliver.laasch@nottingham.edu.cn 
 
Abstract 
Current conceptualizations of business model innovation continue to build on 
static views of business models, which are then conceptualized as changing at the 
component or architectural level. In this paper we develop and apply a processual 
perspective on business models, based in theories of social practice. This allows us 
to take a closer look at social practices as constituting elements of business 
models, and dynamics of enrolment, assemblage and co-evolution as central to 
processes of business model innovation. We provide insight into the added value 
of this conceptualization through a case study of the German SME Allsafe. The 
analysis shows how business model innovation may originate sometimes from 
outside the firm, while at other times new practices emerge from within. Also, the 
dichotomy of component and architectural change is challenged, as we uncover a 
dynamic in which component change morphs into architectural change. 
Keywords 
Business model innovation; organisational practices; humanistic management 
 
 

 
 
Introduction 
The rapidly expanding literature on business models indicates that this concept 
allows researchers and practitioners to address new empirical phenomena like 
innovative modes of provision (for instance platform-based sharing, Acquier et al., 
2017) or take a fresh look at enduring phenomena, such as the change of business 
propositions to include social and ecological values (Randles and Laasch, 2016), at 
times in the form of “humanistic business models” (Laasch et al., 2015). While thus 
providing a useful addition to the conceptual repertoire of management and 
business studies, several reviews of the academic literature on business models 
(BM and business model innovation (BMI) reveal a number of biases and gaps 
(Foss and Saebi, 2017, Massa et al., 2017, Zott et al., 2011). 
A first characteristic of the literature is a persistent lack of conceptual clarity 
(Suddaby, 2010) which is sometimes interpreted as distinct perspectives on the 
‘same’ empirical phenomenon (Massa et al., 2017). The lack of clarity concerns the 
construct of a business model, as well as the way in which it is positioned towards 
other constructs and theoretical framings. 
A second feature of the literature is that, with few exceptions, business models 
are conceived as static entities: a complex set of attributes describing a particular 
way in which a firm ‘creates and appropriates value’ (Teece, 2010). The business 
model canvas, a popular visualization of the various dimensions of the construct, 
exemplifies this quality, but it is also evident from the variety of definitions listed 
in overviews (Massa et al., 2017).This extends to the literature on business model 
innovation. While some address the process of change (for example Roome and 
Louche, 2016), much of this work conceptualizes innovation as a question of which 
building blocks can be fitted together, rather than theorize about the process of 
assembly of those elements. Rather than theorizing a process of change, there is 
a view of business models as the product of design, where the step between 
design and implementation is not problematized (Zott and Amit, 2010). 
A third characteristic is specific for the literature on BMI. Here innovation is 
situated at either the architectural or the component level (Foss and Saebi, 2017). 
This resonates with the distinction between ‘incremental’ and ‘radical’ innovation, 
but it obscures the possibility of incremental change leading into radical 
innovation.  

 
 
While previous work on business models has illuminated interesting 
developments in the ways through which firms generate value, the above 
limitations have also led to white spots. In this paper we aim to begin to fill these 
gaps by adopting a consistently processual perspective on business models. Using 
the lens of theories of practice, we present a conceptualization and empirical case 
of business model evolution, which we view as a process of assembling social 
practices. To facilitate the empirical study, we also provide a methodological 
protocol that fits with our conceptualization.  
As our case we will have chosen a firm which currently positions itself as employing 
a humanistic business model. This choice is driven by the fact that in order to bring 
into focus the ways through which firms assemble social practices to create and 
appropriate value, we can learn specifically from firms that seek to move beyond 
profitmaking and competitive advantage (Arend, 2013, Ocasio and Radoynovska, 
2016). With its explicit focus on creating value, the business model construct 
seems especially suitable to support the analysis of social enterprises and 
sustainable businesses. The aim of this paper is to make a conceptual and 
empirical contribution to the study of business model innovation that allows such 
analysis. Thus, in the paper we answer the following research questions: 
RQ1: How can the lens of theories of practice be used to generate a 
processual perspective on business models? 
RQ2: How do firms construct business models by assembling social 
practices into business models? 
We begin by outlining our conceptual perspective, which consists of a specification 
of business models as activity systems, and a practice-based definition of business 
models. We then present a methodology for collecting and analysing data 
consistent with our processual perspective. This leads into the case description 
and analysis. Conclusions follow. 
Business Models as social process 
The business model construct has been defined in a variety of ways. Massa et al. 
(2017) provide a convenient categorization, with conceptualizations defining a 
business model as denoting either: attributes of real firm, cognitive/linguistic 
devices used by managers to interpret firm characteristics and processes, or 
formal conceptual representations of how a business functions. As each of these 
orientations in effect creates a distinct construct, it is important to clarify our 

 
 
position. We work within the first category, starting from the observation that 
every firm has, to paraphrase Mintzberg’s terminology, a ‘realized’ business 
model: it creates value that is delivered to customers and it also to some extent 
succeeds in capturing part of the value it creates (either as direct profit, or as 
investment that will deliver create future profits) (Mintzberg, 1978). Looking back, 
we may ask how this realized business model emerged, looking forward, we can 
address questions about how it might morph into another incrementally or 
radically different form. In either case, we are interested in questions that do not 
deal so much with the characteristics of the business model as an entity, but rather 
of the emergence, persistence and dissolution of the business model over time. 
These are questions that call for a process perspective (Abbott, 2016, Langley et 
al., 2013). 
This resonates with the work of Zott and Amit (2010) who define a business model 
as an activity system, a “set of activities, as well as the resources and capabilities 
to perform them—either within the firm, or beyond it through cooperation with 
partners, suppliers or customers.” The interdependency of these activities, and 
the fact that they are performed not by one firm, but a set of actors, constitutes 
the particular focus of the business model concept; as such it is distinct from 
viewing the firm as a nexus of treaties (Aoki, 1990), or a set of (inter-
organisational) routines (Casadesus-Masanell and Ricart, 2010). We develop a 
process view on such activity systems by combine this with a practice perspective. 
Schatzki (2005), Schatzki (2006) has proposed such a perspective, and it has been 
developed specifically in such areas as strategy, marketing and finance 
(Whittington, 2006, Whittington, 2011). Defining organizations as social sites, they 
are constituted of practices and material arrangements. 
Social Practices 
Practices are actions shaped by “understandings of how to do things, rules, and 
teleo-affective structure” (Schatzki, 2005). With various elaborations of this 
definition around (Nicolini, 2012), we will employ the basic approach advocated 
by Shove et al. (2012), who define social practices as being constituted of three 
interrelated elements: material objects, meanings and competencies. Thus, a 
social practice such as accounting combines artefacts such as excel sheets 
(material) with notions of legitimate ways of calculating costs and income 
(meaning) with specific competencies (the socialized skills associated with being 
an accountant. According to Gherardi (2012) practices are recognizable as being: 

 
 
(1) socially sustained and constantly reproduced, (2) recognized by a community 
of practitioners, and (3) sustained by a normative basis which is aesthetical and 
ethical. While there exists a variety of theories of social practice (Nicolini, 2012), 
each with their own theoretical lineage, one of these explicitly views social 
practices as activity systems. 
Organizations are ‘meshes’ of such practices (Nicolini, 2012, Gherardi, 2012, 
Schatzki, 2006). The notion of interrelated practices makes the lens of social 
practices immediately relevant for the conceptualisation of business models, as it 
conceptualises (a) the particular types of interrelatedness of individual practices, 
and (b) it emphasizes the processes of assembling, maintenance and enrolment 
that are requires to keep practices in place. 
The Interrelatedness of Practices 
There are various ways in which the interrelatedness of social practices has been 
conceptualized. Gherardi (2012) discusses this in terms of representing the texture 
of practices; Shove et al. (2012) discuss it as practice complexes; and Schatzki 
(2011), interested in macro phenomena such as socio-technical regimes, deals 
with it in terms of bundling. Each of these engage with the related question of how 
to delineate a single practice; without an answer to this it is not possible to analyse 
how they interrelate. Gherardi (2012) takes a pragmatic approach: interested in 
understanding the texture of practices it suffices to isolate a part of it, which can 
be done through definitions of practitioners, or through some theoretical 
distinction. This then leads to an exploration of the ways through which it connects 
to other practices.  
In this paper we will use the distinction between overlapping and connecting 
practices (Schatzki, 2005). Overlap occurs whenever two or more practices invoke 
similar meanings, utilise the same material arrangements, or compete for time 
from the same organizational members possessing the necessary competencies. 
Practices connect as the result of one practice forms the (material or meaning) 
input of another practice. We will refer to connected practices as assemblages. 
Dynamics of Social Practices 
Process approaches are uniquely equipped to study dynamics of emergence, 
persistence and dissolution, as they do not presuppose the existence of entities 
such as organizations, institutions, and indeed, practices (Langley et al., 2013). 

 
 
Instead, conceptualizing social phenomena as events or activities as they unfold 
over time allows us to gain insight into these dynamics. It also suggests an 
alternative way to conceptualize dynamics, as change is not conceived in terms 
like innovation and design, which reflect the unfreeze-change-refreeze paradigm 
(Weick and Quinn, 1999). We build up on Actor-Network-Theory (ANT) (Callon and 
Law, 1982, Law, 1992), more particularly, on the conceptual imagery of assembling 
networks of actors enacting practices (Latour, 2005), insights from processes of 
translation driving the assembling (Callon, 1991, Callon, 1986). We also build on 
the heterogeneous agency of human and nonhuman (materials and devices) in 
enacting strategy (Callon and Law, 1997, Akrich and Latour, 1992).We argue that 
a practice perspective suggests the following groups of dynamics: 
(1) The emergence, enrolment/habituation and dissolution of individual 
practices, as well as experimentation and learning of agents within that 
practice. Practices cannot be invoked instantaneously, so as 
components of business model there is a question of accessibility. 
Organizations and their members need to become enrolled into 
practices (Callon and Law, 1982, Shove et al., 2012). From the practice-
literature on accounting, strategy and marketing it is also clear that the 
practices that combine to form a business model have a ‘life of their 
own’ (Vaara and Whittington, 2012). This includes the insight that such 
practices exist ‘outside’ the organization and consequently there is a 
process of translation (Czarniawska and Sevón, 1996) through which 
they become part of the organization (Whittington, 2006). 
(2) The assembling and disassembling of bundles of practices into business 
models. This is likely a process which combines emergence and co-
evolution with negotiated assemblage and experimentation. The work 
of Casadesus-Masanell and Ricart (2010) is helpful here, as it 
distinguishes business models from strategy, and proposes that the 
latter is about choosing (and constructing) a business model. It also 
mentions the decomposability of business model as an empirical 
variable The intentional part of assembling (both by individual firms 
and through negotiating with others) requires that we mobilize the 
literature which takes business models as formal or informal linguistic 
devices (Massa et al., 2017). Such devices are part of the practice of 
‘business modeling’ or strategizing (Casadesus-Masanell and Ricart, 
2010), which we conceive as assembling. 

 
 
To summarize, defining a business model as an interrelated set of social practices 
accomplishes three things: (1) by looking at activities (doings and sayings through 
which a organizational members engage with each other and with social actors 
outside its boundary of membership), rather than firm characteristics (such as 
‘channel to consumers’ or ‘revenue model’), we can study the emergence, 
dissolution, and dynamics of persistence of constituting elements of a business 
model, (2) by seeing these activities as social practices, we acknowledge that they 
exist on their own, and within many firms, and (3) we enable the analysis of the 
process through which individual practices become assembled into a business 
model with some continuity, but which also evolves over time. 
Method 
We conducted an in-depth illustrative case study through a theories of practice 
lens. During the three months before on-site data collection, it was ensured that 
the data collection could be conducted from a deeply immersed position in Allsafe, 
participating in and observing all kinds of aspects of practices throughout the 
company. Data collection was conducted by two of the authors, who interviewed 
about and observed practices over a period of 10 days at Allsafe’s headquarter 
and only factory in Engen in southern Germany. This approach of combining 
observation and interviews resonates with other empirical studies which 
employed a practices lens (Vaara and Whittington, 2012). 
Data collection with Allsafe consisted of 72 interviews conducted with company 
employees, the primary source of data used for the analysis underlying this article. 
Additionally, we conducted three workshops each with 5 employees forming a 
focus group, on-site observation as participants in office life, production, 
meetings, and celebrations. On-site data collection concluded in a member-
checking open-invitation meeting which approximately 65 people (approximately 
one third of the company membership attended). In sporadic follow-up phone 
calls and mails, particular aspects were clarified further. The resulting data 
collected consisted of approximately 50 hours of interview recordings all of which 
were transcribed, just over 400 pictures, 25 internal documents, and the two 
books written by the Allsafe’s CEO Detlef Lohmann. 
All 72 interviews were semi-structured applying the following pattern: 
Interviewees were first asked for whom Allsafe offered what kind of value, leading 
to a description of the business model’s value proposition (see findings section). 
This was then followed up by asking interviewees to describe the essential 

 
 
practices that lead to the realization of this value proposition. Interview texts were 
coded inductively, clustering similar mentions of practices and leading to Table 1 
describing the business model practices in the three areas of value creation, 
exchange, and capture and to the list of value types offered by the company to 
distinct stakeholder groups (see second part of the findings section). These 
interview analyses were triangulated with other pieces of data, particularly the 
Allsafe books and on-site observations. The description of how practices 
interrelated were then used to develop the interrelations between practices 
depicted in Figure 1 and to describe the processes through which people were 
enrolled to enact the business model as a mesh of practices we found. 
Allsafe’s business model of humanistic management 
practices 
At the time of our study, Allsafe was a medium-sized company located in Engen 
close to Lake Constance in southern Germany. As an automotive and aerospace 
industry supplier it produced load restraint systems that fix loads in ground and 
air transport.10 Allsafe had won dozens of awards and commendations for its 
innovative capacity and quality leadership.11 Their motto was ‘Sicherheit made in 
Germany’ (safety made in Germany). Since foundation in 1964, the company had 
experienced drastic shifts in its business model and underlying practices, evolving 
from a small trade company towards industrial manufacturing. It was currently 
moving towards a servitization business model.12 Their then dominant business 
model was best characterized through its combination of humanistic and 
advanced manufacturing practices. While having been a guarantor for success 
through two economic crises, this business model now appeared to be on the 
brink of a new change episode due growth pressures and an environmental-
sustainability-driven trend towards servitization. 
Our initial research interest was to explore what new insights we might derive 
from processual and practice-based perspectives on business models. The 
following finding section provides an analysis of the bundle of practices that is 
Allsafe’s business model, beginning with (A) an introduction of the individual 
practices, on to (B) describing how they interrelate, and to (C) how people become 
enrolled, maintain and readjust these practices. 
                                                 
10 http://www.allsafe-group.com/en/load-restraint/  
11 http://www.allsafe-group.com/en/company/allsafe-milestones/  
12 http://www.allsafe-group.com/en/company/allsafe-milestones/  

 
 
A. Individual Practices Related to Humanism and 
Commercial Production 
The individuals interviewed described Allsafe’s business model through a number 
of typical practices of the company. Before presenting these we exemplify what 
elements constituted a practice in our study. A good example are practices related 
to equality, more specifically , practices centred on eye-level- interaction13. These 
included working in inter-disciplinary teams and projects, job rotation between 
administrational and manufacturing roles. It was common that in times of high 
demand administrational staff on all levels including the CEO would help out on a 
Saturday production shift. Every new employee in Allsafe first gathers basic work 
experience in both production and administration. Another example is that the 
head of production would personally greet every employee every morning. 
Similarly, the CEO had made it a common practice, to personally deliver parcels 
and letters to his employees every morning to create a personal connection and 
to catch up current affairs, both professional and personal. 
Employees also described how the enactment of these practices and therefore the 
enactment of Allsafe’s business model relied on elements of meanings, material 
and competence. First, these practices had both a commercial and a humanistic 
meaning. Commercially, they meant that close collaboration could be achieved 
between office employees and people in production, between temporary staff 
and permanent employees, between German and non-German employees. 
Achieving this collaboration was key to achieving efficient, effective processes and 
agile responses to customer demands, as these relied heavily on flexible eye-level 
collaboration. They also had a humanistic meaning, grounded in the CEO’s strong 
belief into the collaborative and positive sociable ‘togetherness’ (‘Miteinander’). 
Secondly, key to the practices’ enactment were specific material arrangements 
such as locating offices and factory floor on the same level with production. This 
is unusual in manufacturing companies as typically offices are above the factory 
floor, creating a material/physical barrier. This related also to shared canteens, 
bathrooms, and leisure areas. Third, equality in diversity also required a variety of 
competences. For instance, previously ‘team leaders’ trained to become ‘team 
coaches’, having to transfer their competence profile from a hierarchical 
command position, to an eye-level support of other team members in fulfilling 
their tasks. Non-German employees were offered and paid German courses if they 
                                                 
13 A German documentary produced on the company was titled Augenhöhe (translates as eye-
level). 

 
 
benefitted from them, so that they could communicate on eye level (relates to the 
personal development practices bundle). In order to be able to interact on eye-
level, new employees in manufacturing often stated that they had to get used to 
not to be looked down on by their administration colleagues, as it was typical for 
the majority of other manufacturing companies. Table 1 illustrates meanings, 
materials and competences for all core practices constituting Allsafe’s business 
model. 
[INSERT TABLE 1 ABOUT HERE] 
Table 1 above illustrates the types of practices considered key to the functioning 
of Allsafe’s business model as they had emerged from the coding of interviewees’ 
answers. Value creation activities, that relied on activities that allowed Allsafe to 
create agile differentiation, where practices were centred on speed and flexibility, 
providing innovation and product differentiation ‘on the go’, adapting to changing 
customers’ needs and demands. This central value creation feature also related to 
continuous change towards new structures and organizing principles, driven by 
the ‘motor-of-ideas’ which the CEO was perceived to be due to his practice of 
regular ‘visionary’ inputs for improvement. Such past inputs had let, for instance, 
to the practices of ‘pragmatic organizing’ without barriers and hierarchies, as well 
as to the key bundle of practices related to ‘protected empowerment, making sure 
employees enacted freedom with responsibility, but were not punished for errors, 
in order to provide a safe space for these practices. 
The value exchange function in Allsafe was the most pronounced bundle of unique 
practices. Internally, these practices were centred on relations aspects, such as the 
ones of equality in diversity, which was illustrated with greater detail further 
above. This also related to a bundle of practices ensuring wider self-determination 
of employees, both in terms of self-determined flexible work schedules and 
vacation planning, but also in terms of everybody being allowed to spend sensible 
amounts of money for their activities, without having to ask a superior for 
permission. A key bundle of practices related to radical transparency, included the 
practice to be transparent about activities and outcomes. For instance, on a 
material level, all office walls at Allsafe were transparent and company results 
were continuously made public and updated through on bulletin boards across all 
their facilities. 
These practices were enabled by another bundle of practices, related to a belief 
into natural matching processes and an active abandoning of control or forcing 

 
 
things to happen that are not a natural fit. A bundle of practices was centred on 
people as naturally inclined to cooperate instead of competing between each 
other and as caring for both each others’ wellbeing and Allsafe’s best interest. The 
director of organizational development referred to this as the trust in ‘homo 
cooperans’, as opposed to a purely self-interested competitive ‘homo 
oeconomicus’, the common image of man in neoliberal economics (Lohmann and 
Lohmann, 2016). The same principle applied to customer relations, where other 
manufacturing companies would have sales-representatives with the sole purpose 
of increasing sales numbers, Allsafe’s customer consultants were primed to build 
good relationships with customers and to only sell if there was a sensible demand 
from the customer, even if it went against Allsafe’s financial interest, and possibly 
against customers’ order, that a customer consultant perceives could be changed 
to better serve customers’ needs. 
Unusual, practices like the ones just described in sales, closely related to Allsafe’s 
unusual value capture practices. Unlike typical for-profit-companies, Allsafe’s 
value capture was not primed towards capturing as much value as possible, in 
order to reinvest and grow. Instead, value capture was primed towards company 
preservation and redistribution of value created to employees. In the best interest 
of company preservation, Allsafe was aimed at cautious growth. It was a common 
perception among Allsafe employees that the heterogeneous value offered to a 
variety of stakeholder groups could only be preserved by protecting the unique 
practices of their business model. Particularly, new employees, necessary for 
growth were perceived to take time to be able to practice freedom with 
responsibility and many of the related key practices, at the heart of Allsafe’s 
business model. Accordingly, Allsafe’s strategic leaders were more focused on 
managing the company for stability and sustainability, than for growth; a 
particularly delicate tasks as customer demands for products were rapidly 
increasing. Allsafe also made it a common practice to redistribute profits, both 
through a profit sharing scheme all employees, from CEO to cleaning staff were 
enrolled, and through a practice of continuously improving employees’ social and 
health benefits out of profits. 
B. Interlinked Practices Forming Allsafe’s Business Model 
The above description  provides a good overview of individual areas of business 
model practices. However, it does not yet show their interrelatedness, how these 
practices are bundled and interwoven to form Allsafe’s business model as an 
assembly of practices. In the conceptual section we introduced several forms of 

 
 
how practices may interlink which we are easily observable in Allsafe. Figure 1 
depicts these connections. 
[INSERT FIGURE 1 ABOUT HERE] 
First, we see how practices connect through shared meanings, materials, and 
competences. Skim-reading through the right part side of Table 1, one can quickly 
identify where practices interlink through shared elements. In the ‘meanings’ 
column, the vast majority of have both a meaning related to commercial benefits 
and one to humanism. Close to every second practice requires a variety of social 
skills, therefore linking many practices’ underlying competences. Among the 
material elements of practices, Allsafe’s office layout and physical features are 
further connecting elements between practices. For instance, the walls were the 
central material element of a variety of practices. They were material for the 
practice bundle of ‘Transparency in action and results’, in the form of glass walls 
enabling to see on what, or with whom colleagues were working, or as display 
media for departments and the whole company’s up-to-date results. In the form 
of movable walls for the flexible re-organizing of workspace, they enabled 
practices of project-based organizing through the temporary restructuring of 
workspace. Walls of the meeting room where external visitors were first received, 
served as communicators for the practice of ‘humanistic practices diffusion’ and 
they created an atmosphere conducive to practices of personal development 
when equipped with inspirational quotes and works of art. 
The linking of practices through elements of materials, competences and 
meanings can also be exemplified by zooming in on individual practices, such as 
the CEO Detlef Lohmann’s practice of delivering the postal mail to his employees’ 
desks in the mornings.14 This is a sub-practice in the bundle ‘avoiding hierarchies 
and barriers’, inside the larger bundle of ‘pragmatic organizing’. The ‘CEO postal 
delivery’ practice shares the commercial meaning of creating agile operations and 
flow of ideas and the humanistic meaning of freedom of access in community of 
equals with other subpractices in the practices bundle of minimizing barriers and 
hierarchies. As most others of Allsafe’s business model practices, it requires 
advanced social skills of the CEO who has to quickly switch modes of interaction 
as he interacts with the full range of people and personalities across the business. 
In his book, Lohmann explains how this practice is shared by several human 
                                                 
14 This practice was described in depth in the opening chapter of the CEO Detlef Lohmann’s book 
introducing Allsafe’s unusual organizing and management practices LOHMANN, D. 2012. ...und 
mittags geh ich Heim, Vienna, Linde.. 

 
 
‘carriers’. He describes how he adopted this practice from his predecessor and 
adapted it to a changed company and production employees describe a very 
similar practice of the head of production personally welcoming every production 
worker, normal employees or leased labourers, at the beginning of shifts. 
The second interrelatedness is through sequential input-output relations, were 
one practice becomes prerequisite for others. Such linkages were identifiable 
through interviewees’ description of how one practice linked into another. For 
instance, a majority of interviewees mentioned how the practice of ‘exerting 
freedom with responsibility’ was a necessary prerequisite for the practice of 
‘avoiding hierarchies and barriers’ to work. Figure , shows how all of these 
practices come together as the interwoven bundle of practices that is Allsafe’s 
current agile and humanistic manufacturing business model. For instance, the key 
practice of ‘exercising freedom with responsibility’ is connected to the practice of 
‘avoiding hierarchies and barriers’, without which exercising freedom with 
responsibility would not be possible. It also connects to a variety of further 
practices, for instance, agile manufacturing for which exercising freedom with 
responsibility becomes a necessary prerequisite. Of particular importance are 
mutually-reinforcing feedback loops, such as the one between ‘exercising freedom 
with responsibility’ and practicing a ‘positive culture of error’. With the former 
practice the latter is more effective and vice versa. In summary, Allsafe’s bundle 
of practices that is its business model is tied together by materials, competences, 
and meanings shared between practices as well as through the input-output 
relations in which practices become mutually reinforcing as practices are 
prerequisites for again other practices. 
The resulting mesh of business mode practices was centred on practices with the 
humanistic leitmotif of freedom with responsibility, which enabled an agile 
manufacturing business model. This business model’s practices’ two main 
meaning components of commercial and humanistic value resulted in a blended 
type of value created from all practices. Interviewees described this truly 
heterogeneous value proposition, offering a variety of types of value to five main 
groups (bold lettered in Figure 1): 
(1) Employees. Interviewees most frequently stated Allsafe’s value 
proposition for employees, consisting of, for instance, joyful and fulfilling 
work, freedom and self-determination, socio-economic stability and an 
excellent work-life balance.  

 
 
(2) Customers. This was followed suit by highlighting a customer value 
proposition, of highly customized, products and a close service-oriented, 
positive relationship. 
(3) Society. Interviewees also consistently referred to the value their products 
offered to society, namely vial and transport safety. Employees often 
referred to their products avoiding accidents and improving society’s 
safety on the road.15 A second type of value Allsafe offered to society was 
the promotion of more humanistic business practices. 
(4) Suppliers. Another group were Allsafe’s which interviewees perceived to 
benefit from long-run amicable relationships aimed at mutual benefit, 
goodwill, trust and disposition for shared problem-solving and 
development. 
(5) Owners. As a minor point, employees also referred to a value proposition 
to company owners, due to Allsafe’s profitability and continuous increase 
in firm value and other nonfinancial reasons to be proud of the company. 
Owners, included not only a Swedish investor holding a considerable 
amount of shares, but also the owner-CEO Detlef Lohman, as well as a 
considerable number of employees participating in Allsafe’s co-ownership 
scheme. 
C. Enrolment and Socialization of People into Business 
Model Practices 
How are actors enrolled into Allsafe’s business model practices? From the above 
description of Allsafe’s core business model practices, it appears no far stretch to 
say many of these practices are unique. This implies that organizational actors, 
particularly new employees, may find enacting them unusual, challenging or even 
personally impossible. However, enrolment initially and continuously, into these 
practices is crucial to the viability and continuous construction and reconstruction 
of the business model necessary for its maintenance. 
An initial enrolment challenge presents itself with new employees and other 
people involved in enacting Allsafe’s business model practices, including among 
others, suppliers and customers. These practices were particularly relevant, as 
                                                 
15 This value of safety was so engrained among employees that the researcher was insistently 
nudged to always wear a helmet when using a bike kindly provided by Allsafe for his commute. 

 
 
Allsafe in the mid-end 2010s was experiencing rapid growth pressures and 
opportunities, which in turn created the need to both higher large amounts of new 
employees and to open up a second production facility. A first set of practices 
addressing this challenge, relates to Allsafe’s external engagement (see 
‘humanistic practices diffusion’ in Figure ). Allsafe’s external engagement 
practices, including the writing of an award-winning management bestseller on 
Allsafe’s practices16, coverage in the leading German business journal 
‘Handelsblatt’ in an issue titled ‘The world’s craziest companies’, the television 
documentary ‘Augenhöhe’, and the practice of opening their doors for visitors, 
attracts a variety of like-minded people, interested and open to engaging in these 
unusual practices, particularly the humanistic ones.  
Secondly, a unique mesh of human resources practices ‘attraction and retention 
of “right” people’ (see Table 1) creates a self-reinforcing cycle. New employees 
undergo a one-day work trial ‘Probearbeiten’ in which they are not given a 
particular tasks. Rather they are given a workspace in the area they are being hired 
for and have to make themselves useful by connecting to potential future 
colleagues. Through this process, it becomes automatically clear to what degree 
people are able to flourish in a work-environment of self-responsibility, and to 
which degree they are able to show the proactive social competence that is an 
element the majority of Allsafe’s practices. Once people are hired a second 
practice, or rather non-practice is that people are rarely fired. A general consensus 
appeared to be that because of the unique nature of humanistic practices, people 
who are not able to enact the unusual freedom-responsibility paradigm 
characterizing many practices, typically resign anyway. Finally, hiring was often 
based on word-of-mouth, both attracting ‘right’ employees and deterring ‘wrong’ 
employees. The enacted belief was that prospective new employees who were 
closer to a homo cooperans would self-select the company, and the homines 
oeconomici would either not begin to work for the company, or quit quickly once 
they realized they did not fit into a work environment of cooperation for mutual 
benefit. 
Also the ongoing socialization of already enrolled actors in the practices was a key 
aspect for maintaining Allsafe’s unique mesh of business model practices. A first, 
relevant mesh of practices was the financial incentivization (see ‘Providing 
financial opportunities’ in Table 1) through profit sharing and employee ownership 
schemes, and an above-average pay for leased labourers. It created an interest, 
                                                 
16 Detlef Lohman’s book titled ‘...and by lunchtime I go home’ LOHMANN, D. 2012. ...und mittags 
geh ich Heim, Vienna, Linde. won Germany’s management book of the year award in 2012. 

 
 
incentive and openness to engage into unusual humanistic practices, as these 
were perceived to immediately relate to Allsafe’s economic success fuelling these 
incentive schemes. Also the practice of continuous development of people on 
their job and the development of their job profiles (see ‘Providing development 
opportunities’ in Table 1) helped to ensure continuous enrolment and re-
enrolment of employees in Allsafe’s meshes of practices. Examples are employees’ 
job crafting, shaping their own areas of responsibility and the targeted training of 
employees. For instance, during the time of the data collection production team 
leaders were retrained to become team coaches. Such team coaches would, 
instead of managing others, helping them to manage themselves and therefore 
creating a context increasing the enrolment of all production workers into 
practices enacted with both freedom and responsibility. 
Finally, enrolment into practices also related to changes in practices, ensuring the 
dynamic consistency, which ensured the business model’s continuous adaptation. 
17 While the big picture stayed the same, still there was change and continuous 
improvement, adjusting the business model activity systems to a changing 
business environment and to internal development. Creating new practices 
reinforcing the existing business model practices system. Key were Allsafe’s 
practices 
centred 
on 
continuous 
improvement 
projects 
(in 
German 
‘kontinuierliche Verbesserungsprojekte’, abbreviated KVP). Employees of all kind 
(from production labourer to CEO) proposed projects and participated in them on 
eye level. Employees that were not used to key tasks of, for instance, presenting 
and leading were successively integrated in the KVPs increasing their competence 
to contribute.18 One key KVP titled ‘We before me’, aimed at counteracting a 
perceived deterioration of the social fabric and a surge of egoistic behaviours, 
threatening the collaborative practices of the business model. A second key mesh 
of practices was related to following Allsafe’s CEO as ‘vision motor’ for the 
direction of the company’s ongoing differentiation, including products, new 
processes and markets. Employees’ trust in enacting the new practices suggested 
by Detlef Lohmann, ensured the orientation, and slow move of the business 
model’s practice mesh was in line with a future vision of company development. 
                                                 
17 Business models exist in states of dynamic consistency, changing internally, while staying the 
same on a big picture level DEMIL, B. & LECOCQ, X. 2010. Business model evolution: In search of 
dynamic consistency. Long Range Planning, 43, 227-246.. 
18 This resembles the socialization of people into and learning of new practices through legitimate 
peripheral participation LAVE, J. & WENGER, E. 1991. Situated learning: Legitimate peripheral 
participation, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press.. 

 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
In seeking to develop a deeper understanding of instances of business model 
innovation, we have drawn on theories of social practice to develop a processual 
perspective of business models as continuously evolving assemblages of practices, 
and put this perspective to work on the case of Allsafe. We summarize the 
contribution of this work in three conclusions.  
First, a practice-based understanding of business models provides a conceptual 
language for understanding how business models come about and evolve over 
time. Rather than positing business model innovation as an unproblematic 
instantaneous event, it instead allows for a careful consideration of the way in 
which a business model is assembled through the combining of different practices. 
This process has been conceptualized as a combination of intentional assemblage, 
and emergent enrolment of the organization and its members into new practices, 
which are then maintained through processes of enrolment of further members. 
A second contribution is specifically to theorizing on business models. The practice 
lens makes clear that business models are constituted by practices that have a life 
outside these business models; they are developed and supported by 
communities of practice, and can be part of different business models. Further 
theoretical development is necessary to clarify the precise way in which practices 
evolve in relation to business models. Beyond the literature on social practices, 
this theorizing can draw on theories of organizational institutionalism. The 
development of humanistic practices within Allsafe, and the advocacy about those 
practices beyond the boundaries of the firm, is in our view a clear example of 
institutional entrepreneurship. 
A third contribution is specifically to the understanding of processes of business 
model innovation, which have been classified in terms of the dichotomy between 
architectural 
and 
component 
change 
(Foss 
and 
Saebi, 
2017). 
Our 
conceptualization, with its notions of assemblage and enrolment, allows for the 
possibility of a slow process of evolution in which component change morphs into 
architectural change. The case of Allsafe, is a clear example of how practices co-
evolve in a piecemeal fashion to result in distinctly different business models.  
These contributions in our view indicate the added value of a processual view on 
business models which draws on theories of practice. 

 
 
Table 1 Allsafe’s business model practices across value proposition, creation, and exchange 
 
Meshes of 
practices 
Practice bundles 
Exemplary practice(s) 
Key elements of practices 
Material 
Competence 
Meaning19 
Creation 
Agile 
differentia-
ting 
 
Being quick and 
flexible 
-Making local, immediate decisions 
-Office staff supporting on shop floor 
Budget accessible for 
everyone 
Ability to make (good) 
decisions 
H: Trust in employees 
Innovating and 
differentiating 
-Continuous improvement projects 
-Everybody innovates and changes 
their area of responsibility 
Large round-table in 
meeting rooms 
Ability to work in 
heterogeneous teams 
C: Accessing everybody’s 
knowledge for improvement 
H: Everybody is free to drive 
change, ‘Mitgestaltungsrecht’ 
CEO as 
‘Visionenmotor’ 
-Periodic introduction of novel 
initiatives, which are initially hard to 
grasp 
CEO’s whiteboard with 
idea-compository 
CEO’s visionary capability 
and employees’ ability to 
act upon trust 
CEO safeguarding employee 
welfare (H) and of company 
success (C) 
Pragmatic 
organizing 
Minimizing 
barriers and 
hierarchies 
-Distributed budget access 
-Project-based organizing 
-Training leaders to become enablers 
Seamless one-level 
workshop-office floor, 
movable walls 
Ability to serve and 
protect the team 
C: Agile operations and flow of 
ideas 
H: Freedom of access in 
community of equals 
Process-based 
organizing 
-One-piece flow production 
-Cross-functional teamwork 
Cellular workstation 
layout, seamless one-
level workshop-office 
floor 
Teamwork ability in 
workstation 
C: Agility: Eliminating waiting 
time between production 
processes 
H: Reducing social isolation in 
manufacturing 
Protected 
empower-
ment 
Exercising 
freedom with 
responsibility 
-Self-approval of actions with 
occasional peer reviewer, ‘Vier 
Augen Prinzip’ 
-Self-determination of job 
responsibilities 
Additional remuneration 
for taking responsibility 
versus lower wage 
demands due to 
additional freedom? 
Self-confidence and sense 
of responsibility and 
mastery of job 
(‘Selbstverantwortung’) 
C: Reduction of bureaucracy 
for agility 
H: Trust in human competence 
and responsibility 
Positive culture of 
error, 
‘Fehlerkultur’ 
-No scolding over mistakes 
-CEO backup/support, no overruling 
of decisions 
No financial 
consequences for 
employee 
Ability to give and 
appreciate constructive 
criticism 
C: Fostering entrepreneurialism 
H: Positively accepting errors 
as part of human nature 
Exchange 
Augenhöhe 
(eye-level 
exchange) 
 
Enabling human 
interaction 
-Favoring personal conversation over 
emails 
-CEO delivers postal mail 
Glass walls, connected 
open office structures, 
post box 
Personal communication 
skills and other social 
skills 
C: Agile cooperation 
H: Appreciation of personal 
relations 
Protecting human 
dignity, fostering 
-Proactive minorities/refugees hiring 
-Knowledge and usage of first names 
Variety of workplaces 
suiting diverse people 
Tolerance, sympathy, 
appreciating others 
C: Access to new human 
resources 
                                                 
19 Most of Allsafe’s business model practices appeared to adhere to two logics giving them meaning: ‘H’ stands for meaning derived from a humanistic logic, while ‘C’ 
stands for meaning derived from a commercial logic.  

 
 
diversity, 
minorities, and 
the individual 
-Shaping of job profile to personal 
conditions (e.g. single mothers) 
-Higher pay for temporary staff 
H: Appreciation of all human 
beings 
Cultivating ‘We-
feeling’ (Wir-
Gefuehl) 
-All-company Christmas dinner with 
newbie show 
-Goal achievement lunches 
‘Erfolgsessen’ 
One-location operations 
Social skills for 
harmoniously integrating 
diverse people 
C: Mutual support in 
commercial tasks 
H: Sense of belonging 
Transparency in 
action and results 
-Displaying (C-suite) company KPIs 
and internal statistics everywhere 
Glass walls and info 
walls 
Ability to constructively 
deal with criticism 
H: Transparency and access as 
moral values 
Natural fit, 
voluntary 
nature, and 
space for 
discretion 
Treating people 
as ‘homines 
cooperans’ 
-No supervision 
-Self-forming teams 
Competence-profiles 
hung out on shop floors 
Ability to take initiative, 
self-organize, and 
collaborate 
C: Savings and agility due to 
less need for control 
H: Positive image of (wo)man 
(‘Menschenbild’) 
Self-determining 
work attendance 
-Flexible attendance  
-Self-approving vacations 
No time-punch 
Time management & 
responsible behavior 
C: Savings and agility 
H: Valuing employees’ self-
determination & family 
Demand-oriented 
sales counselling 
-Selling less than customer requests, 
against own commercial interests if 
better for customer 
Sales remuneration 
avoid customer 
instrumentalization  
Empathy with customer 
needs and ability to 
match product features 
C: Customer trust and 
retention 
H: Benefitting customer as 
another human being 
Attraction and 
retention of 
‘right’ people 
-One-day work trial ‘Probearbeiten’ 
-Word-of-mouth hiring 
-No firing, ‘wrong’ people leave 
anyway 
Safe work environment 
Accessible and supportive 
attitude among 
colleagues 
C: People who can perform 
H: Creating a harmonious 
community 
Capture 
Investing in 
employees 
CEO as 
‘Visionenmotor’ 
-Language courses 
-Employee pet projects 
Inspirational art and 
quotes on walls, central 
company library 
Drive for self-
improvement 
C: Better performing, 
innovative employees 
H: Personal human 
development 
Investing in 
wellbeing 
-Annual updating of social benefits 
-Ergonomic workplaces 
-Provision of water and fruits 
Free capital for 
investment 
Empathy to detect social 
needs 
C: Functioning employees 
H: Healthy human being 
Providing 
financial 
opportunities 
-Profit participation without 
exceptions (e.g. the cleaning lady) 
-Employees investing in shares 
Profitable business 
CEO’s and co-owners’ 
openness to pass on parts 
of their profits 
C: Employee motivation 
H: Recognizing the value of all 
human beings through reward 
Preservation 
of company 
and of its 
legacy 
Cautious growth 
-Forfeit growth opportunities if 
threatening humanistic culture 
-Rejecting some client orders if 
compromising 
Physical boundaries to 
growth (e.g. building 
size, machine capacity) 
Ability to balance the 
forfeiting of business 
opportunities with the 
need for stability 
C: Protecting financial capital 
H: Protecting the ‘Allsafe 
family’ of disruption and 

 
 
humanistic culture as a good 
independently 
Managing for 
stability and 
sustainability 
-Concern for healthy social 
structures (e.g. higher paid leased 
labourers) 
Steering wheel sculpture 
in CEO’s office 
Long-term orientation 
and strategic planning 
capability 
Imagery of captain steering 
boat to a safe haven (C), doing 
the best for the entrusted crew 
(H) 
Humanistic 
practices diffusion 
-Continuous media interaction 
-Open doors for externals 
Humanistic quotes on 
walls, books, newspaper 
articles, documentary, 
business club talks 
Drive to share the 
(competitive) advantages 
with economic ecosystem 
C: Transformation of 
commercial practices 
H: Benefit people and 
companies through humanistic 
practices 

 
 
Figure 1 Interrelated Practices System of Allsafe’s Business Model 
 

 
 
References 
ABBOTT, A. 2016. Processual Sociology, Chicago, University of Chicago Press. 
ACQUIER, A., DAUDIGEOS, T. & PINKSE, J. T. F. A. S. C., 125(JULY): 1–10. 2017. 
Promises and paradoxes of the sharing economy: An organizing framework. 
Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 125, 1-10. 
AKRICH, M. & LATOUR, B. 1992. A summary of a convenient vocabulary for the 
semiotics of human and  nonhuman assemblies. Shaping technology, 
building society: Studies in sociotechnical change. Cambridge: MIT Press. 
AOKI, M. 1990. The firm as a nexus of treaties, Thousand Oaks, Sage. 
AREND, R. J. 2013. The business model: Present and future—beyond a skeumorph. 
Strategic Organization, 11, 390-402. 
CALLON, M. 1986. Some elements of a sociology of translation: Domestication of 
the scallops and the fishermen of Saint Brieuc Bay. In: J., L. (ed.) Power, 
action and belief: A new sociology of knowledge? London: Routledge. 
CALLON, M. 1991. Techno-economic networks and irreversibility. A sociology of 
monsters? Essays on power, technology and domination. London: Routledge. 
CALLON, M. & LAW, J. 1982. On interests and their transformation: Enrolment and 
counter-enrolment. Social Studies of Science, 12, 615–625. 
CALLON, M. & LAW, J. 1997. After the individual in society: Lessons on collectivity 
from science, technology and society. Canadian Journal of Sociology, 22, 
165-182. 
CASADESUS-MASANELL, R. & RICART, J. E. 2010. From strategy to business models 
and onto tactics. Long Range Planning, 43, 195-215. 
CZARNIAWSKA, B. & SEVÓN, G. 1996. Translating organizational change, Berlin, 
Walter de Gruyter. 
DEMIL, B. & LECOCQ, X. 2010. Business model evolution: In search of dynamic 
consistency. Long Range Planning, 43, 227-246. 
FOSS, N. J. & SAEBI, T. 2017. Fifteen years of research on business model 
innovation How far have we come, and where should we go? Journal of 
Management, 43, 200–227. 
GHERARDI, S. 2012. How to conduct a practice-based study: Problems and 
methods, Chelthenham, Edward Elgar. 
LAASCH, O., DIERKSMEIER, C. & PIRSON, M. Reality proves possibility: Developing 
humanistic business models from paradigmatic practice.  Academy of 
Management Annual Convention, 2015 Vancouver. 

 
 
LANGLEY, A., SMALLMAN, C., TSOUKAS, H. & VAN DE VEN, A. H. 2013. Process 
studies of change in organization and management: Unveiling temporality, 
activity, and flow. Academy of Management Journal, 56, 1-13. 
LATOUR, B. 2005. Reassembling the social: An introduction to actor-network-
theory, Oxford, Oxford University Press. 
LAVE, J. & WENGER, E. 1991. Situated learning: Legitimate peripheral 
participation, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press. 
LAW, J. 1992. Notes on theory of the actor-network: Ordering, strategy, and 
heterogeneity. Systems Practice, 5, 379-393. 
LOHMANN, D. 2012. ...und mittags geh ich Heim, Vienna, Linde. 
LOHMANN, D. & LOHMANN, U. 2016. ...und heute leg ich los, Vienna, Linde. 
MASSA, L., TUCCI, C. & AFUAH, A. 2017. A critical assessment of business model 
research. Academy of Management Annals, 11, 73–104. 
MINTZBERG, H. 1978. Patterns in strategy formation. Management Science, 24, 
934–948. 
NICOLINI, D. 2012. Practice theory, work, and organization: An introduction, 
Oxford, Oxford University Press. 
OCASIO, W. & RADOYNOVSKA, N. 2016. Strategy and commitments to institutional 
logics: Organizational heterogeneity in business models and governance. 
Strategic Organization, 14, 287-309. 
RANDLES, S. & LAASCH, O. 2016. Theorising the normative business model (NBM). 
Organization & Environment, 29, 53-73. 
ROOME, N. & LOUCHE, C. 2016. Journeying toward business models for 
sustainability: A conceptual model found inside the black box of 
organisational transformation. Organization & Environment, 29, 11-35. 
SCHATZKI, T. 2011. Where the action is: On large social phenomena such as 
sociotechnical regimes. Sustainable Practices Research Group Working 
Paper, 1. 
SCHATZKI, T. R. 2005. Peripheral vision: The sites of organizations. Organization 
Studies, 26, 465–484. 
SCHATZKI, T. R. 2006. On Organizations as they happen. Organization Studies, 27, 
1863–1873. 
SHOVE, E., PANTZAR, M. & WATSON, M. 2012. The dynamics of social practice: 
Everyday life and how it changes, Thousand Oaks, Sage. 
SUDDABY, R. 2010. Editor's comments: Construct clarity in theories of 
management and organization. Academy of Management Review, 35, 346-
357. 

 
 
TEECE, D. J. 2010. Business models, business strategy and innovation. Long Range 
Planning, 43, 172-194. 
VAARA, E. & WHITTINGTON, R. 2012. Strategy-as-practice: Taking social practices 
seriously. Academy of Management Annals, 6, 285–336. 
WEICK, K. E. & QUINN, R. E. 1999. Organisational change and development. Annual 
Review of Psychology, 50, 361–386. 
WHITTINGTON, R. 2006. Completing the practice turn in strategy research. 
Organization Studies, 27, 613-634. 
WHITTINGTON, R. 2011. The practice turn in organization research: Towards a 
disciplined transdisciplinarity. Accounting, Organizations and Society, 36, 
183-186. 
ZOTT, C. & AMIT, R. 2010. Business model design: An activity system perspective. 
Long Range Planning, 43, 216-226. 
ZOTT, C., AMIT, R. & MASSA, L. 2011. The business model: Recent developments 
and future research. Journal of Management, 37, 1019-1042. 
 
 
 

 
 
Business model transformation in 
large incumbent firms –towards an 
attractive and sustainable society 
The case of an energy utility 
 
Jessica Lagerstedt Wadin1,*, Associate Professor,  
Lars Bengtsson1, Professor  
1Dep. Of Design Sciences, Lund University  
 
*Jessica.wadin@design.lth.se 
 
Short Abstract  
A possible pathway towards sustainability transformation requires mass markets 
to become more sustainable (c.f. Hockerts and Wüstenhagen, 2010; Schaltegger, 
2002). Even though large incumbent firms often have developed resources and 
capabilities in marketing, distribution, production, financing, and a large customer 
base, which can be used when further developing and commercializing a new 
technology (Alvarez & Barney, 2001), these assets and routines for large scale 
operations could at the same time act as a barrier for introducing a new business 
model (Kim and Min, 2015; Wadin et al. 2017).  
This paper focus on aspect of business model innovation for sustainability and 
dynamic capabilities in large incumbent firms, where transforming a business 
model in an existing organization can be considered especially difficult (Kindström, 
2010; Smith et al., 2010). More specifically we study how an incumbent utility 
transforms towards customer centric renewable energy business models. In order 
to reach this research objective, we have conducted a longitudinal case study of 
the development of a business model for residential solar PV process in a pro-
active, large and incumbent Swedish electricity utility. We employ literature on 
business model for sustainability (c.f. Boons and Lüdeke-Freund, 2012; Stubbs and 
Cocklin, 2008), business model ambidexterity (Khanagha, 2014), strategic 

 
 
paradoxes (Smith et al., 2010), and dynamic capabilities theory (Teece, 2018; 
2010; 2007; Weissbrod and Bocken, 2017; Demil and Lecocq, 2010) and examine 
how the firm makes use of dynamic capabilities to transform their business model.  
Keywords 
business models for sustainability, business model transformation, large 
incumbent utility, residential solar energy deployment 
References 
Alvarez S., & Barney J.B., 2001, “How entrepreneurial firms can benefit from 
alliances with large partners”, Academy of Management Perspectives, vol. 
15, no. 1, pp. 1139-148. 
Boons, F. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. 2012. Business models for sustainable innovation: 
state-of-the-art and steps towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 45: 9-19. 
Demil, B., and X. Lecocq (2010), “Business model evolution: in search of dynamic 
consistency”, Long Range Planning, 43, 227–46. 
Hockerts, K., and R. Wüstenhagen (2010), “Greening Goliaths versus emerging 
Davids — theorizing about the role of incumbents and new entrants in 
sustainable entrepreneurship”, Journal of Business Venturing, 25, 481–92. 
Khanagha, S., H. Volberda, and I. Oshri (2014), “Business model renewal and 
ambidexterity: structural alteration and strategy formation process during 
transition to a cloud business model”, R & D Management, 44 (3), 322–40. 
Kim, S. K., Min, S., (2015), “Business model innovation performance: when does 
adding a new business model benefit an incumbent?”, Strategic 
Entrepreneurship Journal, vol. 9,  pp. 34-57.  
Kindström, D., (2010), “Towards a service-based business model – key aspects for 
future Competitive advantage”, European Management Journal, 28 (6), 
479–90. 
Schaltegger S., 2002, “A framework for ecopreneurship: Leading bioneers and 
environmental managers to ecopreneurship”, Greener Management 
International, 38:45-50. 
Smith, W. K., Binns, A., & Tuschman M. L. (2010), Complex Business Models: 
Manageing Strategic Paradoxes Simultaneously, Long Range Planning, 43, 
448-461.  
Stubbs, W. & Cocklin, C. (2008), Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”, 
Organization & Environment, Vol. 21, No. 2, pp. 103-127.  

 
 
Teece, D.J. (2007), “Explicating dynamic capabilities: the nature and 
microfoundations of (sustainable) enterprise performance”, Strategic 
Management Journal, 28 (13), 1319–50. 
Teece, D.J. (2010), “Business models, business strategy and innovation”, Long 
Range  Planning, 43(2−3), 172–94. 
Teece, D.J. (2018), Business models and dynamic capabilities, Long Range 
Planning, Vol. 51, pp. 40-49. 
Wadin, J. L., Ahlgren, K., & Bengtsson, L. (2017). Joint business model innovation 
for sustainable transformation of industries–A large multinational utility in 
alliance with a small solar energy company. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
160, 139-150. 
Weissbrod, I. and Bocken, N. M. P. (2017), Developing sustainable business 
experimentation capability – A case study, Journal of Cleaner Production, 
142, 2663-2676. 
 
 

 
 
Ecological-Inclusive Business Models 
for Sustainable Development 
A Case Study on Agro-Food Hybrid Organisations 
in Sub-Saharan Africa 
 
Laura Corazza1,*, Maurizio Cisi1, Fabio Bruschi1 
 
1University of Turin, Italy 
 
*laura.corazza@unito.it 
 
Abstract  
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) proposed by the United Nations have 
encouraged companies to innovate their business models to achieve triple-
bottom-line sustainability. Among the most interesting and effective examples of 
sustainable business model innovation are hybrid organisations. As these 
organisations change the fiduciary duty and structure of the firm, they blur the 
distinction between the profit and non-profit logic and rely on business model 
innovation to pursue their mission. This study focuses on the business models of 
bottom-of-the-pyramid hybrid organisations, which we refer to as ecological-
inclusive, because of their inclination to produce positive environmental value 
while at the same time including low-income stakeholders in their value chain. The 
goal of this paper is to investigate how and to what extent sustainability aspects 
are integrated within ecological-inclusive business models, identifying possible 
business model archetypes. To do so, the authors applied a selective and inductive 
qualitative content analysis to 15 ecological-inclusive business models. By 
analysing and comparing the sampled business models we are able to propose two 
different archetypes of ecological-inclusive business models, according to the low-
income stakeholders engaged as customers: the “young sunflower” and the “adult 
sunflower”. These archetypes explain how bottom-of-the-pyramid hybrid 
organisations face the challenges posed by the context in which they operate to 
fulfil the quest for corporate sustainability.  

 
 
Keywords 
Ecological-inclusive business models; business model canvas; qualitative content 
analysis. 
1 – INTRODUCTION 
Sustainable business model innovation has recently become a material issue 
within sustainable business model research, drawing more interest towards the 
factors of success or failure in the design or reconfiguration of sustainable business 
models (Evans et al., 2017; Geissdoerfer, Vladimirova & Evans, 2018). Research, 
however, has first focused on establishing a common theoretical grounding for 
sustainable business models, acknowledging the need for further empirical studies 
(Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013; Evans et al., 2017; Schaltegger, Hansen & Lüdeke-
Freund, 2016). As a result, there is room to test the application of analytical 
methodologies to case studies to investigate the drivers for the success of 
sustainable business models. Empirical studies have been carried out focusing on 
top-end companies in developed markets (Morioka, Evans & Monteiro de 
Carvalho, 2016; Ritala et al., 2018), or on projects by top-end companies in 
bottom-of-the-pyramid markets (Filardi, Delarissa Barros & Fischmann, 2018), but 
there is still the need to analyse business models of hybrid organisations in 
bottom-of-the-pyramid markets (Battilana & Dorado, 2010; Díaz-Correa & López-
Navarro, 2018; Gebauer, Haldimann & Jennings Saul, 2017). 
This study aims to contribute to the research field of sustainable business model 
innovation by analysing the business models of a set of agro-food hybrid 
organisations in Sub-Saharan Africa. By doing so, the authors aim to shed light on 
the reciprocal influence of coexistent ecological and social concerns on the design 
of the business models of hybrid organisations. This coexistence is not to be 
understood as a form of social or environmental consciousness, or as a tendency 
to do “less bad”, but rather as an actual effort to simultaneously deliver positive 
social and environmental value. As a result, our goal is to contribute to the 
understanding of the key factors for the achievement of a triple-bottom-line 
mission for hybrid organisations oriented at bottom-of-the-pyramid sustainability, 
and to identify possible archetypes for their business models. The business models 
of these organisations, which we define as “ecological-inclusive”, are analysed and 
compared to detect common features and understand how, and to what extent, 
these organisations integrate social and environmental aspects within their 
business models. 

 
 
To do so, the authors conducted a selective and inductive qualitative content 
analysis (Elo & Kyngäs, 2008; Elo et al., 2014) on a set of sample sustainable 
business models. The cases are herein represented and analysed using the 
business model canvas (Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010) to enable a more 
straightforward comparison and understanding of the most meaningful features 
defining a sustainable business model. The quest for comparability led the authors 
to narrow the scope of the analysis to a single business sector and the geographical 
boundaries to a consistent socio-economic context. Both were selected to 
produce the largest possible sample of organisations, for which secondary 
information was available from a reliable source. Notwithstanding these 
boundaries, which somehow limit the possibility of generalising its outcomes, our 
research can pave the way for applications of the same methodology to other 
contexts, as it has been argued in similar studies (Díaz-Correa & López-Navarro, 
2018; Gebauer. Haldimann & Jennings Saul, 2017). 
2 – SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODELS: A LITERATURE REVIEW 
Over the last decade, international organisations have increasingly encouraged 
companies to reconsider their possible contributions to sustainable development 
(UN Global Compact, 2013; United Nations, 2015; World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development, 2010), because no sustainable development is possible 
without a sustainable development of corporations (Kourula, Pisani & Kolk, 2017; 
Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund, & Hansen 2016). As a result, corporate sustainability 
(Garriga & Melé, 2004) and the triple bottom line (Elkington, 1997) have become 
increasingly popular among companies as approaches to create long-term 
stakeholder value (Hart & Milstein, 2003; Kolk, 2016). Following these approaches, 
companies would try to address an array of social, environmental and economic 
issues and transform themselves accordingly to contribute to the goal of a 
sustainable development which respects the planetary boundaries (Whiteman, 
Walker, & Perego, 2013). 
To this extent, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) proposed by the United 
Nations (United Nations, 2015) were and still are considered an important step 
forward, and the contribution of private companies has always been perceived as 
fundamental for the success of the SDGs (Sachs, 2012). Although some authors 
argued for a substantial lag between sustainability talk and practice in large 
companies (Cho et al., 2015; Gray, 2010), these are still perceived to face fewer 
implementation problems, compared to smaller entities, when it comes to 
corporate sustainability (Gallo & Christensen, 2011; Hörisch, Johnson & 

 
 
Schaltegger, 2015; UN Global Compact, 2017). Support from CEOs and an ethically-
inspired leadership appears to be one of the key drivers for successful 
organisational changes for sustainability, albeit not a guarantee of success, as 
spreading down the change can still be challenging (Lozano, 2015; UN Global 
Compact, 2017). 
Business model innovation has been recognised as a promising solution to bring 
the change for corporate sustainability into being (Bocken et al., 2014; Schaltegger 
et al., 2012). Most interestingly, some authors argued that business model 
innovation would represent a more effective and beneficial way to pursue 
corporate sustainability, while at the same time involving fewer risks than other 
kinds of innovations (Chesbrough, 2007; Choi & Wang, 2009; Lindberg, Meinel & 
Wagner, 2011). As a result, sustainable business model innovation has recently 
risen to prominence as a research field (Geissdoerfer, Vladimirova & Evans, 2018) 
and as a process to design, redesign and adopt new business models to overcome 
the barriers preventing organisations from being simultaneously profitable and 
beneficial to the natural environment and society (Boons, & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013; 
Geissdoerfer, Bocken & Hultink, 2016; Schaltegger, Hansen & Lüdeke-Freund, 
2016). 
Bottom-of-the-pyramid businesses are among the most interesting examples of 
sustainable business models (Geissdoerfer, Vladimirova & Evans, 2018), as they 
aim to engage stakeholders with low incomes while providing more affordable and 
accessible services in innovative and sustainable manners (Bitzer & Hamann, 2015; 
Hahn, 2012). The customer base for such business consists of over 4 billion people 
living with less than $2 per day, who form the so-called “bottom of the pyramid” 
(Prahalad, 2012). Since it was first identified, the bottom of the pyramid has been 
considered a promising market, especially for multinational corporations 
(Prahalad & Hart, 2002), albeit a challenging one (Olsen & Boxenbaum, 2009). 
Targeting low-income customers requires substantial innovations in the business 
model of an organisation (Prahalad, 2012), and the challenge of achieving long-
term profitability while addressing customers with limited financial resources adds 
to the traditional barriers to sustainable business model innovation (Evans et al., 
2017; Gebauer, Haldimann & Jennings Saul, 2017). 
Although the bottom of the pyramid was first described as a potential market for 
large multinational corporations (Prahalad & Hart, 2002), it has been argued that 
the nature of these companies, as well as their distance from these consumers, 
would make them less effective without the support from non-profit entities, such 

 
 
as NGOs (Pitta, Guessalaga & Marshall 2008). The need for cooperation between 
corporations and NGOs to successfully develop business models which are 
sensitive to the culture and to the socio-economic context of developing countries 
is an indication of how a bottom-up process is perhaps more effective (Dahan et 
al., 2010; Pitta, Guessalaga & Marshall 2008). In addition, it supports the claim that 
to become successful, business models for bottom-of-the-pyramid markets should 
be collaborative (Gebauer, Haldimann & Jennings Saul, 2017) and rely both on 
internal resources and on the external capabilities available in these markets 
(Sanchez, Ricart, 2010). 
In this respect, the collaboration between corporations and hybrid organisations 
is considered an important opportunity to develop corporate sustainability 
initiatives (Haigh et al., 2015a). Hybrid organisations design or reshape their 
business models to address relevant social or environmental issues (Haigh et al., 
2015b). As a result, their business models have been defined as “sustainability-
driven” and represent a good business case for sustainable management (Díaz-
Correa & López-Navarro, 2018; Haigh & Hoffman, 2012). Their hybrid nature is 
given by the fact that these organisations, while addressing sustainability issues, 
will also pursue for-profit activities, trying to make their mission profitable (Alberti 
& Varon Garrido, 2017). By doing so, they blur the distinction between profit and 
non-profit logic and present different legal statuses (Haigh & Hoffman, 2012). 
Given their peculiar nature, hybrid organisations represent a form of 
organisational innovation. Achieving both positive social and environmental 
impacts and profits with the same business model represents a challenging 
tension which has been investigated by the hybrid organisation literature (Pache 
& Santos, 2013; Ramus & Vaccaro, 2014; Mair, Mayer and Lutz, 2015; Stevens, 
Moray and Bruneel, 2015). This two-fold goal, in fact, could produce paradoxical 
outcomes, positive for the mission but negative for profits. Hybrid organisations, 
for example, could end encouraging their customers to produce positive 
environmental and social outcomes by themselves, without involving the 
organisation (Jay, 2013). As a result, it is interesting to investigate if, and how, 
bottom-of-the-pyramid hybrids (Hockerts, 2015) can stay profitable in the long 
term and at the same time, effectively achieve their mission. 
Research has produced many definitions of sustainable business models, but not 
all of them stress the importance of simultaneously and consistently delivering 
both social and environmental positive value (Geissdoerfer, Vladimirova & Evans, 
2018). Bocken et al. (2014) described archetypes of sustainable business models, 

 
 
but some of the archetypes focus mainly on technological innovation to improve 
eco-efficiency and reduce pollution, as opposed to other archetypes which 
present a dominant social component. The simultaneous creation of 
environmental and social positive value, although not ruled out, appears not to be 
a requirement, even among the archetypes under the organisational grouping. 
Other formulations, such as the Strongly Sustainable Business Model (SSBM), lay 
the emphasis on the creation of positive social, environmental and economic, as 
well as on the inclusiveness, as this triple-bottom-line value has to be co-created 
by engaging the wide audience of the stakeholders (Upward & Jones, 2016). 
Strongly Sustainable Businesses, however, are relatively unexplored as a 
formulation, especially from the point of view of empirical research. 
Empirical research, accordingly, focused on bottom-of-the-pyramid hybrid 
organisations only aiming at a social impact (Agarwal et al., 2018; Brueckner et al., 
2010; Hockerts, 2015), or on building social and environmental impact indicators 
for such organisations (Holt & Littlewood, 2015). Some authors, on the other hand, 
focused on bottom-of-the-pyramid venture initiatives (Duke, 2016; Filardi, 
Delarissa Barros & Fischmann, 2018; Gebauer, Haldimann & Jennings Saul, 2017) 
or on analysing business model innovations in frugal products and services (Howell 
et al., 2018; Pansera & Owen, 2015; Rosca et al., 2017; Winterhalter et al., 2017). 
These studies, however, focus, on the one hand, on single innovations (e.g. a 
product or a service) and, on the other hand, on venture initiatives by western 
firms. As a result, they do not assume the case of organisations which, as a whole, 
build their entire business model around sustainability. In addition, studies on 
sustainable business model focusing on major companies are outside of the hybrid 
organisation realm (Morioka, Evans & Monteiro de Carvalho, 2016; Ritala et al., 
2018), and even the authors covering hybrid organisations in developed countries 
call for applications of the proposed research methods to different contexts (Díaz-
Correa & López-Navarro, 2018). 
A sound analysis of hybrid organisations in bottom-of-the-pyramid markets with 
business models oriented to triple-bottom-line sustainability is still missing. These 
particular business models, which we could refer to as “strongly sustainable” 
(Upward & Jones, 2016), or as “ecological-inclusive”, holistically connect different 
Sustainable Development Goals and embed them into the value proposition to 
solve specific social and environmental concerns. Since we are referring to 
bottom-of-the-pyramid hybrid organisations, we will hereinafter refer to this 
particular type of sustainable business models as “ecological-inclusive”, to 
emphasize the effort to produce positive environmental outcomes while including 

 
 
low-income stakeholders. Another most noticeable feature of these ecological-
inclusive business models is the fact that they embrace a proactive strategy 
instead of an accommodative strategy (Bocken et al., 2014).  As a result, 
ecological-inclusive business models cannot be limited to do “less bad”, but they 
have instead to produce positive impacts both from the social and from the 
environmental point of view. 
This hybridisation between planet-first and people-first missions potentially bears 
inside the seeds of a new institutional plurality, strategic orientation and business 
model and has hence to be investigated accordingly (Cornforth, 2014; Ebrahim, 
Battilana, & Mair, 2014; Jay, 2013). The authors argue that investigating how 
hybrid organisations integrate sustainability aspects into their ecological-inclusive 
business models can be fundamental to understand how business model 
innovation can serve the quest for corporate sustainability. A sound research 
methodology is fundamental to analyse a sample of hybrid organisations and to 
develop archetypes which are able to explain how these organisations face the 
tension between profit and non-profit mission, while engaging bottom-of-the-
pyramid stakeholders in their core operations. In this respect, using qualitative 
content analysis to investigate the business models can help us to solve the 
question surrounding these hybrid ecological-inclusive organisations. Business 
models, in fact, enable us identifying how key components and functions are 
connected and combined within an organisation and between the organisation 
and the external environment to create and deliver value (Osterwalder, Pigneur, 
& Tucci, 2005; Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010). 
3 – RESEARCH METHOD 
A content analysis relies on examining different text-based resources. To 
investigate how hybrid organisations integrate sustainability aspects in innovative 
ecological-inclusive business models, the authors used an inductive and selective 
content analysis (Elo & Kyngäs, 2008; Elo et al., 2014; Guthrie, Petty, Yongvanich, 
& Ricceri, 2004) over a collection of cases of ecological-inclusive business models. 
We chose this method to ensure credibility, consistency and transferability to our 
methodology. An inductive analysis, furthermore, will enhance the understanding 
of the issue, by establishing categories to group the entries accordingly (Cavanagh 
1997).  
 
 

 
 
Inductive content analysis, as defined in Elo & Kyngäs (2008), follows a five-steps 
path: 
1. Open coding 
2. Coding sheets 
3. Grouping 
4. Categorisation 
5. Abstraction 
 
This process is consistent with the conceptual framework for business model 
design and analysis provided by the business model canvas (Osterwalder & 
Pigneur, 2010). The nine building blocks of the business model canvas will be used 
as the fundamental monads to examine each organisation in the sample. Besides, 
the use of the business model canvas allows the comparison between companies. 
The business model canvas, as a result, will be used as a framework in the open 
coding step while reading and systematising the qualitative content for each 
company. By doing so, we will be able to identify, for each organisation, the 
customer segments, the value propositions, channels, customer relationships, 
revenue streams, key resources, key activities, key partnerships and the cost 
structure. 
The information thus collected can be combined and displayed in an appropriate 
coding sheet (Figure 1). The “Impacts” row does not belong to the business model 
canvas as in Osterwalder and Pigneur (2010) and is added to summarise and list 
the most noticeable outcomes of the activity of the organisation as far as 
sustainability is concerned. We will make use of colours to indicate whether 
environmental or social aspects or actors are successfully integrated into each 
block. The yellow colour hence denotes the presence of social features in a block 
of the business model, while green represents the presence of environmental 
features. With the research question being how bottom-of-the-pyramid hybrid 
organisations address the tension between financial, social and environmental 
missions, it is most interesting to look at the simultaneous presence of cells 
labelled with green and cells labelled with yellow inside each block. The coding 
sheet, as a result, will appear more yellow and greener as more evidence of social 
and environmental aspects being simultaneously integrated into the business 
models is collected. 

 
 
 
Figure 1: Sample coding sheet. Yellow stands for social features, green for 
environmental features, while white stands for absence of social or environmental features. 
 
Having filled in the coding sheet, the authors were then able to draw the most 
noticeable features which make these ecological-inclusive business models 
innovative. The content analysis allows the identification of categories to 
understand how different types of ecological-inclusive businesses shape their 
business model to achieve their mission. Examining the business models, besides, 
will provide insights on how pro-societal and pro-environmental activities, rather 
than cost-increasing measures, can instead be integrated inside the core business 
of a company as profit-increasing activities. The explanation of these inherent 
connections through a business model can help to identify underlying low-cost 
innovation opportunities (Amit & Zott, 2012; Chesbrough, 2010; Zott & Amit, 
2008). 

 
 
For the scope of our analysis, we decided to use the following definitions for each 
block of the business model canvas (Figure 2), which are derived from the business 
model canvas (Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010). The use of the business model 
canvas developed by Osterwalder & Pigneur (2010) instead of other formulations 
such as Joyce & Paquin (2016) or Upward & Jones (2016) is driven by the fact that 
the former is more established within the business model research field compared 
to the latter and more consistent with the information we were able to retrieve 
from our source database.  
 
Figure 23: Business model canvas and questions answered by each canvas. 
 
4 – SAMPLE CONSTRUCTION 
This study relies on a set of business cases retrieved from a third-party database. 
The source of the cases is the Publication Database of the Inclusive Business Action 
Network (IBAN), which contains to this day 486 case studies of organisations 
aiming at including bottom-of-the-pyramid consumers, suppliers, entrepreneurs 
and employees. The Inclusive Business Network Publication Database, in turn, 
collects the publications from various other sources, such as the Growing Inclusive 
Markets (GIM) database and the set of cases available on the website of the 
Business Call to Action (BCtA). The United Nations Development Programme 
(UNDP) launched and supported these two initiatives which date back to 2008, 

 
 
whereas the Inclusive Business Action Network was established in 2014 and is 
managed by the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ). 
To ensure comparability across the sampled companies, the authors decided to 
focus the analysis on a uniform set of countries. The study should, in fact, be 
focused on a default and uniform geographical context. The political and 
socioeconomic contexts, in turn, will be as similar as possible for the entities to be 
examined. As a result, the hybrid ecological-inclusive organisations in the sample 
will have to address the same problems and needs when it comes to shaping their 
business model to contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs). Thus, the authors used regional groupings from the 2017 Sustainable 
Development Goals Report (United Nations, 2017) to determine the clusters of 
countries. We decided to focus our study on the regional group “Sub-Saharan 
Africa”, which offers the largest number of case studies compared to other 
regional groups. To this day, in fact, the Inclusive Business Network Publication 
Database collects 166 case studies for this regional group. 
In order to better ensure cross-firm comparability, the authors decided to focus 
the analysis on a single business sector. Hence, we selected the agricultural and 
food sector, which contains 72 case studies, the highest number for this regional 
group. Agriculture, moreover, is one of the business sectors with the most 
connections to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It is also one of the 
business sectors where interactions between different Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) are the most challenging. For example, food production in Sub-
Saharan Africa tackles the SDG 2 - “Zero Hunger” while supporting other SDGs such 
as SDG 1 - “No Poverty” and SDG 3 – “Good Health and Well-Being.  At the same 
time, however, food production can constrain other SDGs such as SDG 13 – 
“Climate Action” (Nilsson, Griggs & Visbeck, 2016). As a result, we expect the 
agriculture and food sector in bottom-of-the-pyramid markets to present multiple 
opportunities and challenges to develop and shape innovative ecological-inclusive 
business models (Prahalad, 2012). 
Eventually, in order to reduce the numerousness of the database and to obtain 
the final sample, the authors laid down some requirements to be applied. As a 
result, we require the sampled organisations to meet the following criteria:  
 
• Independent and managerial governance: the sampled enterprises would 
present various organisational forms, provided that they have managerial 

 
 
governance and their business management is independent from other public or 
private entities (e.g. large multinational corporations, local governments, 
intergovernmental organisations - IGOs). This criterion allows us to exclude ad-hoc 
projects and short-term initiatives, whether they are carried out by corporations 
with a going concern perspective or not; 
• Mixed mission: according to this requirement, the firms would be selected 
only if they create a positive impact on SDGs related to both environmental and 
social aspects; 
• Established companies: the sample will include only companies which have 
already gone beyond the start-up stage. As a rule of thumb, we will select 
companies with more than three years of activity since the establishment date; 
• Complete, impartial, non-biased information: finally, we set this 
requirement to exclude all the cases where the lack of information prevented us 
from having a deep understanding of the business model. Besides, this criterion 
would leave out all the organisations for which forms of communication bias could 
mine the accuracy of the information included in the case studies. 
Following these criteria, the database was reduced to 15 sampled organisations. 
A description of the sample is reported in Figure 3. For each company, the table 
lists the country of origin, its legal form, the date of establishment, the main 
products or services, the Sustainable Development Goals addressed and the low-
income stakeholder engaged. A brief description of the mission is also included. 
Six of these organisations are based in Kenya, three South Africa, two in 
Mozambique and Ghana, and one in Nigeria and Uganda. 

 
 
 
Figure 3: Sampled organisations. 
 
5 – FINDINGS 
One of the most noticeable features of our sample is that we can find 
organisations offering similar products and services. In particular, we have two 
organisations focused on honey production (Honey Care and Mozambique Honey 
Company), two organisations which produce natural remedies (Muliru Farmers 
and Muthi Futhi) and three organisations which developed innovative tools and 

 
 
solutions for horticulture and agriculture (Claire Reid Reel Gardening, Kickstart 
International and Mobah Rural Horizons). Besides, three organisations focus their 
activity on marketing indigenous varieties of fruit and grain (Baobab Products 
Mozambique, Integrated Tamale Fruit Company and Unique Quality Product 
Enterprise). Kenya Tea Development Agency, One Acre Fund and Yice Uganda, on 
the other hand, all aim to increase the access to the markets and financial capital 
by offering an array of services to the smallholder farmers. Two organisations, 
finally, rely on waste and excessive production to promote a circular agricultural 
value chain for smallholder farmers (Imai Farming Cooperative and Safi Organics). 
Whether these groups would share common features and consequently form 
different groups will be confirmed or denied during the grouping and abstraction 
stages. 
The results of the coding process are displayed in the coding sheets included as 
annexes at the end of the paper. Our analysis shows that environmental and social 
features can be found in all the value propositions of the sampled organisations. 
This evidence basically confirms us that the sampling method used produced 
indeed a sample which is consistent with our premises. Each of the entities in our 
sample displays an evolution of the value proposition, from a traditional single-
purpose proposition towards a triple-bottom-line proposition where societal 
needs and environmental concerns are considered alongside doing economically 
viable business. As our sample shows, this orientation to the simultaneous 
creation of economic, social and environmental positive value presents some 
significant challenges when it comes to the profitability and scalability of the 
business. 
Regardless of the groups of companies, which we have previously identified 
according to the product or service provided, our sample suggests that the main 
distinction lies indeed within the “Customer Segments” block of the business 
model canvas. We will, therefore, explain this difference as it emerges from the 
organisations in our sample, and describe two possible archetypes of ecological-
inclusive business models. As previously said, the “Customer Segments” block of 
the business model canvas is used to identify the different kinds of customers 
whom the organisation is addressing to while carrying out its business activity. It 
is then important to verify whether bottom-of-the-pyramid customers are 
engaged as customers by each organisation, as well as whether these customers 
are somehow related to the environmental sustainability realm. 

 
 
As far as the presence of social and environmental features is concerned, our 
sample suggests that social features are a constant presence within the “Customer 
Segments” block of the business model canvas. All the 15 sampled hybrid 
organisations address bottom-of-the-pyramid customers, whether in the form of 
consumers or as producers, and, in this specific case, as smallholder and 
subsistence farmers. The main goal of all the organisations in our sample is to 
provide affordable products or services either for bottom-of-the-pyramid 
households or for bottom-of-the-pyramid farmers, or both. By engaging the 
smallholder subsistence farmers, most of them manage to lift the farmers out of 
absolute poverty by providing additional income or alternative income sources. At 
the same time, however, some of the organisations in our sample are also 
targeting bottom-of-the-pyramid consumers, as they feature in their range of 
products also food products which are affordable for the low-income households. 
The main dichotomy which our sample suggests is between two types of hybrid 
organisations: the ones which focus only on downstream customers, and the ones 
which manage to engage also their suppliers as upstream customers. Some of the 
organisations included in our sample, in fact, do business not only by marketing 
agricultural or food products but also by selling agricultural inputs or services to 
the farmers, which are indeed both suppliers and customers. Other organisations, 
on the other hand, engage with the farmers by providing training in organic 
farming or hygiene practices, but only to ensure the quality of the products, and 
without receiving revenues in exchange. 
Overall, the 15 sampled organisations can be divided into two different groups, 
according to the low-income stakeholders engaged as customers. The first group 
comprises those hybrid organisations which, besides selling agricultural products 
to upstream customers, also provide substantial support to smallholder farmers 
whether in the form of training, access to farming inputs, to financial credit or 
insurance services. As a result, they earn revenues both from selling agricultural 
products and from the services they provide to the farmers. This group includes 
three organisations, namely Honey Care, Integrated Tamale Fruit Company and 
Kenya Tea Development. 
The second group includes those hybrid organisations which target only 
downstream bottom-of-the-pyramid customers, be they smallholder farmers or 
households. Two sub-types of organisations fall into this category: the ones whose 
customers are smallholder farmers (Kickstart International, One Acre Fund, Safi 
Organics and Yice Uganda) and the ones whose customers are bottom-of-the-

 
 
pyramid households (Baobab Products Mozambique, Claire Reid Reel Gardening, 
Imai Farming Cooperative, Mobah Rural Horizons, Mozambique Honey Company, 
Muliru Farmers, Muthi Futhi and Unique Quality Product Enterprise). The 
organisations in the first sub-type provide products or services to smallholder 
farmers, and these are their only source of revenues. Alongside their main 
products or services, they also promote and provide training in sustainable 
agriculture practices. The organisations in the second sub-type, on the other hand, 
focus their activity on the production and marketing of agricultural products. Even 
if they provide some sort of training to their suppliers, that is, to smallholder 
farmers, in sustainable agriculture practices, they do not receive any revenue in 
exchange.  
All these organisations engage at least one bottom-of-the-pyramid stakeholder as 
a customer and carry out their business activities with the aim of addressing the 
substantial needs of these stakeholders. By doing so, they also address 
environmental concerns by promoting sustainable farming practices. To some 
extent, thanks to their inclusive nature, they can all be considered capacity 
builders. However, the extent to which they manage to incorporate this capacity 
building within their business models and value creation strategy is somehow 
different between the two groups. The hybrid organisations in the first group, in 
fact, do not limit themselves to increase an existing capacity. Instead, they create 
capacity from scratch by providing innovative solutions to allow the farmers to 
carry out new activities, improving their living standards and the agricultural 
outputs in a sustainable way.    
6 – DISCUSSION 
Having acknowledged the distinction between the two groups of organisations, 
we can use a metaphor to describe two different possible archetypes of ecological-
inclusive business models. The metaphor used is the one of the sunflower, and it 
is an image which makes reference both to the agro-food business sector, which 
is the scope of our study and to the concept of the flourishing enterprise (Laszlo 
et al., 2014).    
Young sunflowers follow the sun 
We found the behaviour of the hybrid organisations with ecological-inclusive 
business models included in the first group to resemble the one of young 
sunflowers. Before they eventually bloom, young sunflowers track the movement 

 
 
of the sun in the sky, moving from east to west, and backwards, during the day. If 
we consider the sun as a metaphor of the social and environmental purposes, 
hybrid organisations with the “young sunflower” behavioural pattern will move 
from downstream to upstream in their value chain, engaging both consumers and 
suppliers as their customers, in an effort to create positive environmental and 
social value along the whole value chain. The “young sunflower” business model 
archetype is characterised by a strong attitude towards the resolution of the 
challenges faced by bottom-of-the-pyramid stakeholders upstream and 
downstream the value chain. They create a strong bond with their suppliers, 
providing them with fundamental farming inputs, such as beehives, or valuable 
services, on the condition that they supply all their agricultural outcome to Honey 
Care, Integrated Tamale Fruit Company and Kenya Tea Development Agency.  
Adult sunflowers always face eastward 
The hybrid ecological-inclusive organisations in the second group, on the other 
hand, act as “adult sunflowers”. When sunflowers finally bloom and become adult, 
they stop tracking the sun in the sky and always face eastward during the day. 
Likewise, the organisations in the second group, have their focus oriented in just 
one direction, downstream, either towards households or towards smallholder 
farmers. They either market agricultural products to consumers or provide 
services to smallholder farmers. In the case of smallholder farmers, these 
organisations may provide them with some training services, but only to ensure 
product quality and so that the agricultural outcome can be marketed as produced 
from certified organic farming. As far as these organisations are concerned, 
however, producing and selling agricultural products to downstream customers 
does not prevent them from pursuing significant positive environmental and social 
outcomes upstream in the value chain. These hybrid organisations, in fact, aim to 
improve the living standard of smallholder farmers by paying them fair prices, 
allowing them to move away from subsistence farming. 
The value of partnerships 
All the companies make extensive use of collaboration and partnerships with third 
parties, to overcome the challenges of doing business in bottom-of-the-pyramid 
markets. Partnerships are fundamental to achieve scalability and to expand to 
other markets, but also to produce positive social and environmental value for the 
stakeholders engaged. Our sample suggests that scalability can be more of a 
challenge for young sunflowers compared to adult sunflowers, as they might have 

 
 
to build by themselves the upstream supply capacity required to fulfil the 
downstream demand. In this regard, partnerships can be fundamental for hybrid 
organisations with a “young sunflower” business model to increase the access to 
farming inputs, financial capital and other services for their suppliers. This 
evidence supports the claim that collaboration is the key to success for business 
models in bottom-of-the-pyramid markets (Gebauer, Haldimann & Jennings Saul, 
2017). 
7 – CONCLUSIONS 
Our study contributes to the research field of sustainable business model 
innovation by providing an empirical analysis of the business models of 15 hybrid 
organisations in agro-food bottom-of-the-pyramid markets. Our research offers 
an insight into the solutions developed by these organisations to address relevant 
social and environmental concerns related to the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs). The main outcome is the identification of two possible ecological-inclusive 
business model archetypes, which we called “young sunflower” and “adult 
sunflower”. Although the scope of our study is limited to a specific business sector 
and to only one of the regional groupings proposed by the United Nations, its 
results are indeed interesting. We suggest that future research should test the 
presence of a dichotomy between young and adult sunflower ecological-inclusive 
business models in other contexts, and using larger samples.  
Our research, finally, suggests that content analysis has, indeed, an interesting 
potential when it comes to analysing business models, and can hence be used as 
a methodology for empirical studies on sustainable business model innovation. As 
far as the sampling method is concerned, third-party publication databases such 
as the one offered by the Inclusive Business Action Network (IBAN) can be useful 
sources to build an unbiased sample. However, the availability and quality of the 
qualitative information from third-parties, especially on hybrid organisations in 
bottom-of-the-pyramid markets, can pose significant constraints to the research 
activity. As a result, we suggest a direct collection of the information through 
interviews and questionnaires as an improvement for similar studies.  
References 
Agarwal, N., Chakrabarti, R., Brem, A. & Bocken, N.M.P. (2018) Market driving at 
Bottom of the Pyramid (BoP): An analysis of social enterprises from the 
healthcare sector. Journal of Business Research, 86, 234-244.  

 
 
Alberti, F.G. & Varon Garrido, M.A. (2017) Can profit and sustainability goals co-
exist? New business models for hybrid firms. Journal of Business Strategy, 
38(1), 3-13. 
Amit, R., & Zott, C. (2012) Creating value through business model innovation. MIT 
Sloan Management Review, 53(3), 41–49. 
Battilana, J. & Dorado, S. (2010) Building sustainable hybrid organisations: the case 
of microfinance organisations. The Academy of Management Journal, 53(6), 
1419-1440. 
Bitzer, V. & Hamann, R. (2015) The business of social and environmental 
innovation: Introduction. In Bitzer, V., Hamann, R., Hall, M., and Nwosu, E. 
(eds.): The business of social and environmental innovation: frontiers in 
research and practice in Africa. Berlin: Springer and Cape Town: UCT Press. 
Bocken, N., Short, S.W., Rana, P. & Evans S. (2014) A literature and practice review 
to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 65, 42-56. 
Boons, F. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013) Business models for sustainable innovation: 
state-of-the-art and steps towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 45, 9-19. 
Brueckner, M., Paulin, S., Davis, J. & Chatterjee, S. (2010) A Case for Social 
Enterprise: At the Bottom of the Top of the Pyramid. The International 
Journal of Environmental, Cultural, Economic and Social Sustainability, 6(2), 
149-166. 
Cavanagh, S. (1997) Content analysis: concepts, methods and applications. Nurse 
Researcher, 4(3), 5-16. 
Chesbrough, H. (2007) Business model innovation: it’s not just about technology 
anymore. Strategy & Leadership, 35(6), 12-17. 
Chesbrough, H. (2010). Business model innovation: Opportunities and barriers. 
Long Range Planning, 43(2–3), 354–363. 
Cho, C.H., Laine, M., Roberts, R.W. & Rodrigue, M. (2015) Organized hypocrisy, 
organizational 
façades, 
and 
sustainability 
reporting. 
Accounting, 
Organizations and Society, 40, 78–94. 
Choi, J. & Wang, H. (2009) Stakeholder relations and the persistence of corporate 
financial performance. Strategic Management Journal, 30, 895–907. 
Cornforth, C. (2014) Understanding and combating mission drift in social 
enterprises. Social Enterprise Journal, 10(1), 3–20. 
Dahan, N.M, Doh, J. P., Oetzel, J. & Yaziji M. (2010) Corporate-NGO Collaboration: 
Co-creating New Business Models for Developing Markets. Long Range 
Planning, 43, 326-342. 

 
 
Díaz-Correa, J. E. & López-Navarro, M.A. (2018) Managing Sustainable Hybrid 
Organisations: A Case Study in the Agricultural Sector. Sustainability, 10(9), 
3010. 
Duke, D. (2016) Why Don’t BOP Ventures Solve the Environmental Problems They 
Initially Set Out to Address? Organization & Environment, 29(4), 1-22. 
Ebrahim, A., Battilana, J., & Mair, J. (2014) The governance of social enterprises: 
Mission drift and accountability challenges in hybrid organizations. Research 
in Organizational Behavior, 34, 81-100. 
Elkington, J., 1997. Cannibals with Forks: the Triple Bottom Line of 21st Century. 
Capstone, Oxford. 
Elo, S. & Kyngäs, H. (2008) The qualitative content analysis process. Journal of 
Advanced Nursing, 62(1), 107–115. 
Elo, S., Kääriäinen, M., Kanste, O., Pölkki, T., Utriainen, K., & Kyngäs, H. (2014) 
Qualitative Content Analysis: A Focus on Trustworthiness. SAGE Open, 
January-March 2014: 1–10.   
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Van Fossen, K., Yang, M., Silva, A. E. & 
Barlow, C. Y. (2017) Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a 
Unified Perspective for Creation of Sustainable Business Models. Business 
Strategy and the Environment, 26, 597–608. 
Filardi, F., Delarissa Barros, F. & Fischmann, A. A. (2018) Business strategies for the 
bottom of the pyramid: multiple case studies of large companies in the 
pacified communities of Rio de Janeiro. RAUSP Management Journal, 53, 
63–73. 
Gallo, P. J. & Christensen, L. J. (2011) Firm Size Matters: An Empirical Investigation 
of Organizational Size and Ownership on Sustainability-Related Behaviors. 
Business & Society, 50(2), 315–349. 
Garriga, E. & Melé, D. (2004) Corporate Social Responsibility Theories: Mapping 
the Territory. Journal of Business Ethics, 53(1-2), 51-71. 
Gebauer, H., Haldimann, M. & Jennings Saul, C. (2017) Business model innovations 
for overcoming barriers in the base-of-the-pyramid market. Industry and 
Innovation, 24(5), 543-568. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Bocken, N.M.P. & Hultink, E.J. (2016) Design thinking to enhance 
the sustainable business modelling process - A workshop based on a value 
mapping process. Journal of Cleaner Production, 135, 1218-1232. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D. & Evans, S. (2018) Sustainable business model 
innovation: A review. Journal of Cleaner Production, 198, 401-416. 
Gray, R. (2010) Is accounting for sustainability actually accounting for 
sustainability...and how would we know? An exploration of narratives of 
organisations and the planet. Accounting, Organizations and Society, 35, 47–
62. 

 
 
Guthrie, J., Petty, R., Yongvanich, K. & Ricceri, F. (2004) Using content analysis as 
a research method to inquire into intellectual capital reporting. Journal of 
Intellectual Capital, 5(2), 282-293. 
Hahn, R. (2012) Inclusive Business, Human Rights and the Dignity of the Poor: A 
Glance beyond Economic Impacts of Adapted Business Models. Business 
Ethics: A European Review (2012), 21(1), 47-63. 
Haigh, N. & Hoffman, A.J. (2012) Hybrid organizations: The Next Chapter In 
Sustainable Business. Organizational Dynamics, 41(2), 126-134. 
Haigh, N., Dowin Kennedy, E. & Walker, J. (2015a) Hybrid Organizations as Shape-
Shifters: Altering Legal Structure for Strategic Gain. California Management 
Review, 57(3), 58-82. 
Haigh, N., Walker, J., Bacq, S. & Kickul, J. (2015b) Hybrid Organizations: Origins, 
Strategies, Impacts and Implications. California Management Review, 57(3), 
5-12. 
Hart, S.L. & Milstein, M.S. (2003) Creating Sustainable Value. Academy of 
Management Executive, 17(2), 56-67.  
Hockerts, K. (2015) How Hybrid Organizations Turn Antagonistic Assets into 
Complementarities. California Management Review, 57(3), 83-106. 
Holt, D. & Littlewood, D. (2015) Identifying, Mapping, and Monitoring the Impact 
of Hybrid Firms. California Management Review, 57(3), 107-125. 
Hörisch, J., Johnson, M.P. & Schaltegger, S. (2015) Implementation of 
Sustainability Management and Company Size: A Knowledge-Based View. 
Business Strategy and the Environment, 24, 765–779. 
Howell, R., van Beers, C. & Doorn, N., (2018) Value capture and value creation: The 
role of information technology in business models for frugal innovations in 
Africa. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 131, 227-239. 
Jay, J. (2013) Navigating paradox as a mechanism of change and innovation in 
hybrid organizations. Academy of Management Journal, 56(1), 137–159. 
Kolk, A. (2016) The social responsibility of international business: From ethics and 
the environment to CSR and sustainable development. Journal of World 
Business, 51, 23–34. 
Kourula, A., Pisani, N. & Kolk, A. (2017) Corporate sustainability and inclusive 
development: highlights from international business and management 
research. Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability, 24,14–18. 
Laszlo, C., Brown, J., Ehrenfeld, J., Gorham, M., Barros-Pose, I., Robson, L., et al. 
2014. Flourishing Enterprise: The New Spirit of Business. Stanford, 
California: Stanford Business Books. 
Lindberg, T., Meinel, C. & Wagner, R. (2011) Design Thinking: A Fruitful Concept 
for IT Development? In: Meinel C., Leifer L., Plattner H. (eds) Design Thinking. 
Understanding Innovation. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg. 

 
 
Lozano, R. (2015) A Holistic Perspective on Corporate Sustainability Drivers. 
Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 22, 32–44. 
Mair, J., Mayer, J. & Lutz, E. (2015) Navigating Institutional Plurality: Organizational 
Governance in Hybrid Organizations. Organization Studies, 36(6) 713–739. 
Morioka, S.N., Evans, S. & Monteiro de Carvalho, M. (2016) Sustainable business 
model innovation: exploring evidences in sustainability reporting. Procedia 
CIRP, 40, 659 – 667. 
Nilsson, M., Griggs D. & Visbeck, M. (2016) Map the interactions between 
Sustainable Development Goals. Nature, 534, 320-322. 
Olsen, M. & Boxenbaum, E. (2009) Bottom-of-the-Pyramid: Organizational 
Barriers to Implementation. California Review Management, 51(4), 100-125. 
Osterwalder, A., Pigneur, Y. & Tucci, C. L. (2005) Clarifying Business Models: 
Origins, Present, and Future of the Concept. Communications of the 
Association for Information Systems, 16(1), 1-25. 
Osterwalder, A. & Pigneur, Y. (2010) Business Model Generation: A Handbook for 
Visionaries, Game Changers and Challengers. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & 
Sons. 
Pache, A.C. & Santos, F. (2013) Inside the Hybrid Organization: Selective Coupling 
as a Response to Competing Institutional Logics. Academy of Management 
Journal, 56(4), 972–1001 
Pansera, M. & Owen, R. (2015) Framing resource-constrained innovation at the 
‘bottom of the pyramid’: Insights from an ethnographic case study in rural 
Bangladesh. Technological Forecasting & Social Change, 92, 300–311. 
Pitta, D.A.,  Guesalaga, R. & Marshall, P. (2008) The quest for the fortune at the 
bottom of the pyramid: potential and challenges. Journal of Consumer 
Marketing, 25(7), 393 – 401. 
Prahalad, C.K. & Hart, S.L. (2002) The fortune at the bottom of the pyramid. 
Strategy+Business, 26, 2-14. 
Prahalad, C.K. (2012) Bottom of the Pyramid as a Source of Breakthrough 
Innovations. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 29(1), 6–12. 
Ramus, T. & Vaccaro, A. (2017) Stakeholders Matter: How Social Enterprises 
Address Mission Drift. Journal of Business Ethics, 143, 307–322. 
Ritala, P., Huotari, P., Bocken, N.M.P, Albareda, L. & Puumalainen, K. (2018) 
Sustainable business model adoption among S&P 500 firms: A longitudinal 
content analysis study. Journal of Cleaner Production, 170, 216-226. 
Rosca E., Arnold, M. & Bendul, J. C. (2017) Business models for sustainable 
innovation e an empirical analysis of frugal products and services. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 162, 133-145. 

 
 
Sachs, J.D. (2012) From Millennium Development Goals to Sustainable 
Development Goals. Lancet, 379, 2206–2211. 
Sanchez, P., Ricart, J.E. (2010) Business model innovation and sources of value 
creation in low-income markets. European Management Review 7, 138-154. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E.G. (2012) Business Cases for 
Sustainability and the Role of Business Model Innovation - Developing a 
Conceptual Framework. International Journal of Innovation and Sustainable 
Development, 2012, 6(2), 95-119. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business Models for 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues. Organization 
& Environment, 29(1), 3–10. 
Stevens, R., Moray, N. & Bruneel, J. (2015) The Social and Economic Mission of 
Social Enterprises: Dimensions, Measurement, Validation, and Relation. 
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 39(5), 1051-1082. 
United Nations Global Compact (2013) Global Corporate Sustainability Report 
2013. 
United Nations (2015) Transforming our world: The 2030 agenda for sustainable 
development. 
United Nations (2017) The sustainable development goals report 2017. 
Upward, A. & Jones, P. (2016) An Ontology for Strongly Sustainable Business 
Models: Defining an Enterprise Framework Compatible With Natural and 
Social Science. Organization & Environment, 29(1), 97–123. 
Whiteman, G., Walker, B. & Perego, P. (2013) Planetary Boundaries: Ecological 
Foundations for Corporate Sustainability. Journal of Management Studies 
50(2), 307-336. 
Winterhalter, S., Zeschky, M.B., Neumann, L. & Gassmann, O. (2017) Business 
Models for Frugal Innovation in Emerging Markets: The Case of the Medical 
Device and Laboratory Equipment Industry. Technovation, 66-67, 3-13. 
World Business Council on Sustainable Development (2010) Vision 2050 – The new 
agenda for business.  
Zott, C., & Amit, R. (2008) The fit between product market strategy and business 
model: Implications for firm performance. Strategic Management Journal, 
29(1), 1–26. 
 
 
 

 
 
Annexes 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
Exploring the Differences Between 
Commercial and Sustainable Business 
Models: A Conceptual Framework 
 
Erica Olesson 
 
University of Auckland 
 
e.olesson@auckland.ac.nz 
 
Abstract  
This paper draws on institutional logics to explain the differences between 
commercial and sustainable business models, and contributes to understanding 
the cognitive barriers to sustainability transitions. The framework developed 
shows that institutional logics influence cognitive structures and ultimately real-
world expression of different business model taxonomies, dominated by 
commercial or sustainability logics.  
Keywords 
Sustainable business models, commercial business models, institutional logics, 
barriers. 
Introduction 
Business models substantially influence activities and relationships in society. 
They shape workplaces, how goods and services are consumed, and relationships 
along the whole value chain from resource extraction, through manufacture, 
distribution, use and disposal (Demil et al., 2015). The design and choice of 
business model therefore has implications for the degree of positive or negative 
impact a business has on society and the environment. This means that businesses 
can actively contribute to creating a future that is fairer, healthier, and happier for 
all people and that protects and enhances our relationship with the natural 
environment (World Business Council for Sustainable Development, 2010). 

 
 
However, in response to global challenges to achieving these objectives, current 
business approaches have been identified as insufficient, with changes required 
“at the core of the business model” (Bocken et al., 2014, p. 44). 
In this paper I will differentiate ‘sustainable business models’, being new 
approaches that address sustainability challenges, and contrast this with the 
current typical business model approach, which I will refer to as ‘commercial 
business models’20. As a relatively new field of research, the extant sustainable 
business model research is focused on the characteristics of organisations that are 
seeking to be more sustainable, and the concepts that lead to what could be 
described as a sustainable business model (Dentchev et al., 2018). However, as 
this research area progresses, it is necessary to consider the barriers to uptake of 
sustainable business models.   
Laukkanen and Patala (2014) identified attitudes, values and common 
understanding as major barriers to the update of sustainable business models. 
This is because individuals are guided by norms and beliefs when undertaking 
reasoning for business model design (Bettis and Prahalad, 1995; Chesbrough and 
Rosenbloom, 2002). In this paper, I argue that institutional logics can be used to 
identify and characterize the differences in norms and beliefs, and that these may 
shape business models, leading to, for example, commercial or sustainable 
approaches. This is because logics provide the social context that guides practices 
and behaviours through shared understandings and values (Thornton and Ocasio, 
1999).  
Specifically, this paper responds to the research question: How do institutional 
logics inform individuals’ understanding of business model characteristics? The 
contribution of this paper is therefore to bring together these literatures in order 
to consider the underlying differences between commercial and sustainable 
business models. These differences are important to understand because they will 
help direct where more research and action is needed to move individuals 
embedded in commercial business models towards greater consideration of 
sustainable alternatives. The paper also contributes to several of Dentchev et al.’s 
(2018) calls for further research in the field, including at the intersection with the 
commercial (‘traditional’) business model field, and a more robust 
                                                 
20 While sustainable business models may also be commercial models, I will use the term 
‘commercial business models’ to distinguish between the concepts. This nomenclature aligns with 
the entrepreneurship literature to distinguish social and commercial entrepreneurship (e.g. Austin, 
Stevenson and Wei-Skillern, 2006; Estrin, Mickiewicz and Stephan, 2013). 

 
 
conceptualization and theoretical development of the antecedents of sustainable 
business models. 
This paper is divided into three sections. First, I provide a brief overview of the 
business model literature comparing commercial business models and sustainable 
business models. Secondly, I provide a similarly brief overview of institutional 
logics with specific focus on commercial and sustainability logics. Finally, I bring 
these two literatures together, integrating institutional logics into Osterwalder, 
Pigneur, and Tucci’s (2005) levels of business model abstraction. 
Business model literature 
In this section I compare the descriptions of commercial and sustainable business 
models, and implications for how ‘value’ is perceived within the two sub-
literatures. I draw on the mainstream business model literature to characterize 
commercial business models, and the sustainable business model literature to 
characterize sustainable business models. I then highlight the literature on 
business models as cognitive structures, and how these impact business model 
decision-making. 
Commercial and sustainable business model focus 
The focus of the business model in the mainstream literature is economic for the 
organization (Breuer et al>, 2018). This is variously described as “realisation of 
economic value” (Chesbrough and Rosenbloom, 2002, p. 529) and “to generate 
profitable and sustainable revenue streams” (Osterwalder, Pigneur and Tucci, 
2005, p. 10). This focus highlights an implication that ‘value’ in the mainstream 
business model literature is value to the customer and financial return to the 
organisation (Biloslavo, Bagnoli and Edgar, 2018). For example, Teece suggests an 
effective business model “entices customers to pay for value, and converts those 
payments to profit” (2010, p. 172). Similarly, for Chesbrough and Rosenbloom 
(2002) a key business model element is the cost structure and profit capture, and 
Magretta (2002) discusses value and cost from the perspective of the customer, 
and how financial value is captured for the firm, and Gordijn’s (2004) e3value 
approach across value exchange, value activity, and value object is entirely 
focused on economic value across. 
In contrast, sustainable business models are focused on “creating significantly 
increased positive effects and/or significantly reduced negative effects for the 

 
 
natural environment and society” (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018, p. 147). For 
example, Rauter, Jonker, and Baumgarner suggest sustainable business models, 
“must also add a positive social value and/or minimize negative environmental 
impacts” (2017, p. 145). In the same way, Geissdoerfer, Bocken and Hultink 
describe sustainable value as “environmental, economic, or social effectiveness, 
efficiency, or resilience” (2016, p. 1219). This different focus shows how in a 
sustainable business model, ‘value’ is deliberately extended from the financial 
focus of mainstream business model literature (Schaltegger, Hansen and Lüdeke-
Freund, 2016). 
Business models as cognitive structures 
A key stream of business model literature is conceptualising business models as 
cognitive structures (Massa, Tucci and Afuah, 2017). That is, this research stream 
considers the structures individuals hold in their minds about the business model. 
These structures inform individuals’ actions and decision-making. Within this 
research stream, Martins et al. (2015, p. 105) define business models as “cognitive 
structures that consist of concepts and relations among them that organize 
managerial understandings about the design of activities and exchanges that 
reflect the critical interdependencies and value creation relations in their firms’ 
exchange networks”. In other words, business models in an individual’s mind hold 
key concepts about how the business model functions, with respect to the firm 
and its network. 
The extant literature in this stream includes several key case studies that 
demonstrate the role of cognitive structures on subsequent organizational 
success, including cognitive bias towards established business models. For 
example, Tripsas and Gavetti (2000) investigated Polaroid management’s inability 
to change its cognitive frame away from the existing model to adopt newer 
technologies and ways of operating. Similarly, Chesbrough and Rosenbloom 
(2002) found that Xerox would evaluate new technologies from the perspective of 
the established copier business, and as a result missed out on value creation from 
new technologies that needed to operate in different ways. This literature shows 
the potential impact of business model cognitive structures on the ability, or 
inability, of organisations to consider and implement alternative business models.  
Despite the focus on this research stream, there remains a lack of understanding 
about the details or drivers of the cognitive structures of business models. In the 

 
 
following section I consider how the cognitive level of institutional logics may 
provide insight into this area.  
Institutional logics literature 
Institutional theory seeks to explain uniformity of organizational approaches and 
practices through describing the socially constructed pressures in which 
organisations operate (Suchman, 1995). According to the theory, the social forces 
of institutions lead to isomorphic pressures, whereby organisations mimic 
established forms and practices (DiMaggio and Powell, 1983). Individuals’ 
identities and goals are cognitively bounded and embedded within these social, 
cultural, and political structures (2012). Friedland and Alford (1991) 
conceptualized institutional logics as each institutions’ organising principles. 
Thornton and Ocasio further developed this conceptualization, defining logics as 
“socially constructed, historical patterns of material practices, assumptions, 
values, beliefs and rules by which individuals produce and reproduce their 
material subsistence, organize time and space, and provide meaning to their social 
reality” (1999, p. 804). Institutional logics thus hold the shared approaches and 
values that have developed over time and guide acceptable actions and decision 
making.  
Scholars have investigated the impact of invoking different logics at the individual 
level. In a study invoking the commercial and family logics, Schilke (2018) found 
that the commercial logic was associated with greater attention being paid to 
external factors in order to be competitive with others in the market. This led to 
greater likelihood of changing decisions based on others’ behaviour, whereas the 
family logic focused on 'what is right for us', and resulted in greater resistance to 
changing decisions from external pressures. The family logic also emphasised 
quality and a 'right way of doing business' compared to the commercial logic. 
This paper focuses on the commercial and sustainability logics, which represent 
different approaches and values. Laasch (2017) conceptualised these two logics in 
an organisational context. The logics are described with respect to characteristics 
such as key stakeholders, basis of interaction, and organisational goals (see Table 
1). Commercial logic characteristics manifest as, for example, individuals seeing 
customers and shareholders as the primary stakeholders, and contractual 
responsibilities and competition as the basis of interaction with other 
organisations. For individuals operating under this dominant logic, the type of 
value that is the focus is financial. Under the sustainability logic, individuals see 

 
 
society and the environment as key stakeholders, and collaboration with other 
organisations as the basis of interaction. Value under the sustainability logic is 
environmental, social, and economic.  
Table 1 Institutional logic characteristics (Source: Laasch, 2017) 
Characteristic 
Commercial 
Sustainability  
Reference 
institutions 
Capitalist market system 
Supra-national organisations, 
e.g. United Nations 
Conceptual basis 
Capitalism, 
neoclassical 
economics 
Sustainable 
development, 
Brundtland 
Report, 
international development 
Human 
characteristics 
Opportunistic, 
self-interest-
driven, seeing others as means 
to an end 
Relational 
and 
caring, 
concerned 
with 
needs 
of 
oneself, others and humanity 
as a whole 
Main stakeholders 
Customers, shareholders 
Humanity, 
society, 
environment 
Basis of interaction 
Contractual 
responsibilities, 
market exchange, competition 
Moral responsibilities, multi-
stakeholder 
exchange, 
collaboration 
Environmental 
relationship 
Exploitation, 
natural 
environment as input 
Conservation, 
natural 
environment as a good 
Type of value 
Financial 
Environmental, 
social, 
economic 
Normative goal 
Maximization of financial value 
and economic growth 
Balancing 
and 
sustaining 
environmental, 
social 
and 
economic value 
Time horizon 
Short to medium run 
Long run 
Governance criteria 
Efficient, effective, profitable 
Inclusive, 
equitable, 
restorative 
Orienting 
parameters 
Price, cost, revenue, margin 
Triple bottom line, resource 
conservation 
and 
replenishment 
Reference 
publications 
Friedland and Alford (1991); 
Pirson and Lawrence (2010); 
Thornton and Ocasio (2008) 
Brundtland (1987); Dyllick and 
Hockerts (2002); Kates et al. 
(2005); Stubbs and Cocklin 
(2008) 
 
Some business model literature draws on institutional theory to explain hybrid 
organisations that combine aspects of different logics into a single business model 
(e.g. Laasch, 2017). However, it is unclear in the literature how institutional logics 
interact with the concept of business models. 
 
 

 
 
Synthesis: Business models and institutional logics 
There is a strong alignment between commercial business models and the 
commercial logic, as well as sustainable business models and the sustainability 
logic, as outlined in the previous sections. I suggest that commercial business 
models reflect the commercial logic described, with goals associated with 
“maximization of financial value and economic growth” (Laasch, 2017, p. 162). 
Similarly, the sustainable business model reflects the sustainability logic with a 
goal of “balancing and sustaining environmental, social and economic value” 
(Laasch, 2017, p. 162). Despite this alignment, there is limited literature 
connecting the business models and institutional logics concepts. In this section I 
adapt a framework to integrate the concepts. 
The concept of business models is explored at different levels of abstraction in the 
literature. To capture the possible levels, Osterwalder, Pigneur, and Tucci (2005) 
proposed a hierarchy of the business model concept. At the most abstract level is 
the meta-model, which identifies generic components that are relevant across 
business model types21. At the second, sub-meta models level, are taxonomies of 
types – generic business models with similar characteristics. This could include 
‘make-sell’, ‘resell’, or ‘license’ taxonomies of business models, which draw on the 
core components in different ways to make up the business model. At the most 
detailed level are real world businesses. Businesses draw on the appropriate 
taxonomy and express these in ways that fit the organisation’s specific context, 
stakeholder relationships, and objectives.  
Even with the differences in values and focus discussed previously, Brehmer et al. 
(2018) found that at their most fundamental, the business models of sustainable 
organisations are generic. That is, the underlying business model taxonomy for 
sustainable business models is not different from commercial business models. I 
therefore suggest that the sub-meta models level has two parts: shared 
taxonomies across different logics at the higher level (e.g., ‘make-sell’ or ‘licence’); 
and the expression of those models according to the different logics at the lower 
level (e.g., ‘make-sell commercial business model’ or ‘make-sell sustainable 
business model’). These then inform business model decisions at the level of 
                                                 
21 There is no consensus on the core components in the literature; however components identified 
commonly include value proposition, value creation and delivery, and value capture (e.g. 
Chesbrough and Rosenbloom, 2002; Teece, 2010); as well as literature that adds to these 
components with external organisation, volume and structure of costs, margin (Demil and Lecocq, 
2010); and customers, product/service offerings (Fjeldstad and Snow, 2017). 

 
 
individual organisations. Figure 1 shows the updated hierarchy to capture these 
differences. 
 Figure 1 Business model hierarchy with institutional logics (adapted from Osterwalder et al. 
(2005)). Circles indicate business model components; grey circles represent abstract component 
arrangement by taxonomy; blue and yellow represent underlying logic (values, believes, 
practices) for commercial and sustainability logics, respectively); sizes and depth of colour 
demonstrate how these components and expression of the logic may vary between real world 
organisations. 
 
This framework shows that general business model components are arranged 
according to business model taxonomies. These components are then further 
interpreted according to the different logics. The expression of business model 
type according to a specific logic then provides a ‘blueprint’ of, for example, a 
make-sell commercial business model or a make-sell sustainable business model. 
This framework thus reflects findings in the literature that business models reflect 
underlying values, and how these may be acting as a barrier to moving towards 
sustainable business models. This is of interest because it highlights the role of 
shared values and understanding at the levels of institutional logics, and how 
these inform the business model types. The ‘blueprint’ then informs the 
arrangement of different ‘real world’ organisations. 
Here I have argued that the differences in business models reflect the respective 
dominant institutional logics of each. Specifically, I argue that because these logics 
are in the minds of individuals, they shape individuals’ cognitive structures of 

 
 
business models. This means that individuals operating within a commercial logic 
are constrained, due to how the dominance of the commercial logic shapes the 
individuals’ cognitive structures of business models. Therefore, the transition to 
sustainable business models requires a change in the in the dominant logic of the 
individual, and this may facilitate a change in cognitive structures of business 
models. 
Concluding remarks 
Bocken et al. suggest that new business model approaches provide an opportunity 
to “re-conceptualise the purpose of the firm and value creating logic and 
perceptions of value” (2014, p. 43). I have argued that the values to achieve this 
are captured in a different logic than the commercial logic which is guiding current 
commercial business model approaches. Therefore, all business model 
taxonomies may have sustainable forms, if influenced by the sustainability logic. 
This suggests that transition to sustainable business models may require 
interventions at the level of the dominant logic. This may then provide 
opportunities to influence individuals’ cognitive structures of business models. 
Further research is needed to explore this relationship.  
References 
Austin, J., Stevenson, H. and Wei-Skillern, J. (2006) ‘Social and commercial 
entrepreneurship: Same, different, or both?’, Entrepreneurship: Theory and 
Practice. Elsevier Masson SAS, 30(1), pp. 1–22. 
Bettis, R. A. and Prahalad, C. K. (1995) ‘The dominant logic: Retrospective and 
extension’, Strategic Management Journal, 16(1), pp. 5–14. 
Biloslavo, R., Bagnoli, C. and Edgar, D. (2018) ‘An eco-critical perspective on 
business models: The value triangle as an approach to closing the 
sustainability gap’, Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 174, pp. 746–
762. 
Bocken, N. M. P. et al. (2014) ‘A literature and practice review to develop 
sustainable business model archetypes’, Journal of Cleaner Production. 
Elsevier Ltd, 65, pp. 42–56. 
Brehmer, M., Podoynitsyna, K. and Langerak, F. (2018) ‘Sustainable business 
models as boundary-spanning systems of value transfers’, Journal of Cleaner 
Production. Elsevier Ltd, 172, pp. 4514–4531. 
Breuer, H. et al. (2018) ‘Sustainability-oriented business model development: 
principles, criteria and tools’, International Journal of Entrepreneurial 
Venturing, 10(2), p. 256. 

 
 
Chesbrough, H. and Rosenbloom, R. S. (2002) ‘The role of the business model in 
capturing value from innovation: evidence from Xerox Corporation’ s 
technology spin-off companies’, Industrial and Corporate Change, 11(3), pp. 
529–555. 
Demil, B. et al. (2015) ‘Introduction to the SEJ Special Issue on Business Models: 
Business Models within the domain of Strategic Entrepreneurship’, Strategic 
Entrepreneurship Journal, 9, pp. 1–11. 
Demil, B. and Lecocq, X. (2010) ‘Business model evolution: In search of dynamic 
consistency’, Long Range Planning, 43(2–3), pp. 227–246. 
Dentchev, N. et al. (2018) ‘Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: 
A prolific field of research and a future research agenda’, Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 194, pp. 695–703. 
DiMaggio, P. J. and Powell, W. W. (1983) ‘The iron cage revisited: Institutional 
isomorphism and collective rationality in organizational fields’, American 
Sociological Review, 48, pp. 147–160. 
Estrin, S., Mickiewicz, T. and Stephan, U. (2013) ‘Entrepreneurship, Social Capital, 
and Institutions: Social and Commercial Entrepreneurship Across Nations’, 
Entrepreneurship: Theory and Practice, 37(3), pp. 479–504. 
Fjeldstad, Ø. D. and Snow, C. C. (2017) ‘Business models and organization design’, 
Long Range Planning. Elsevier Ltd, 51(1), pp. 32–39. 
Friedland, R. and Alford, R. R. (1991) ‘Bringing society back in: Symbols, practices 
and institutional contradictions’, in Powell, W. W. and DiMaggio, P. (eds) The 
New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis. University of Chicago Press, 
pp. 232–263. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Bocken, N. M. P. and Hultink, E. J. (2016) ‘Design thinking to 
enhance the sustainable business modelling process – A workshop based on 
a value mapping process’, Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 135, 
pp. 1218–1232. 
Gordijn, J. (2004) e-Business value modelling using the e3-value ontology, Value 
Creation from E-Business Models. Elsevier Ltd. 
Laasch, O. (2017) ‘Beyond the purely commercial business model: Organizational 
value logics and the heterogeneity of sustainability business models’, Long 
Range Planning. Elsevier Ltd, 51(1), pp. 158–183. 
Laukkanen, M. and Patala, S. (2014) ‘Analysing Barriers To Sustainable Business 
Model Innovations: Innovation Systems Approach’, International Journal of 
Innovation Management, 18(06). 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. et al. (2018) ‘The sustainable business model pattern 
taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model 
innovation’, Sustainable Production and Consumption. Elsevier B.V., 15, pp. 
145–162. 

 
 
Magretta, J. (2002) ‘Why Business Models Matter’, Harvard Business Review, pp. 
3–8. 
Martins, L. L., Rindova, V. P. and Greenbaum, B. E. (2015) ‘Unlocking the hidden 
value of concepts: A cognitive approach to business model innovation’, 
Strategic Entrepreneurship Journal, 9, pp. 99–117. 
Massa, L., Tucci, C. and Afuah, A. (2017) ‘A Critical Assessment of Business Model 
Research’, Academy of Management Annals, 11(1), pp. 73–104. 
Osterwalder, A., Pigneur, Y. and Tucci, C. L. (2005) ‘Clarifying Business Models : 
Origins , Present , and Future of the Concept Clarifying Business Models : 
Origins , Present , and Future of the Concept’, Communications of AIS, 
15(May), pp. 1–40. 
Rauter, R., Jonker, J. and Baumgartner, R. J. (2017) ‘Going one’s own way: drivers 
in developing business models for sustainability’, Journal of Cleaner 
Production. Elsevier Ltd, 140, pp. 144–154. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. G. and Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) ‘Business Models for 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues’, Organization 
and Environment, 29(1), pp. 3–10. 
Schilke, O. (2018) ‘A Micro-institutional Inquiry into Resistance to Environmental 
Pressures’, Academy of Management Journal, 61(4), pp. 1431–1466. 
Suchman, M. C. (1995) ‘Managing Legitimacy: Strategic and Institutional 
Approaches’, Academy of Management Review, 20(3), pp. 571–610. 
Teece, D. J. (2010) ‘Business models, business strategy and innovation’, Long 
Range Planning. Elsevier Ltd, 43(2–3), pp. 172–194. 
Thornton, P. H. and Ocasio, W. (1999) ‘Institutional Logics and the Historical 
Contingency of Power in Organizations: Executive Succession in the Higher 
Education Publishing Industry, 1958– 1990’, American Journal of Sociology, 
105(3), pp. 801–843. 
Thornton, P. H., Ocasio, W. and Lounsbury, M. (2012) The Institutional Logics 
Perspective: A New Approach to Culture, Structure, and Process. Oxford 
University Press. 
Tripsas, M. and Gavetti, G. (2000) ‘Evidence From Digital Imaging’, Strategic 
Management Journal, 21(10/11), pp. 1147–1161. 
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (2010) Vision 2050: The new 
agenda for business. 
 

 
 
Industry business model patterns for 
business model innovation – The case 
of the electricity industry 
 
Claudia Antunes Marante1, Rene Bohnsack2 
1Católica Lisbon School of Business & Economics, Portugal; 2Católica 
Lisbon School of Business & Economics, Portugal 
Abstract 
This paper addresses the question of how a pattern taxonomy of activities in an 
industry can be used to innovate business models. At the example of the electricity 
industry – an industry that is facing several changes due to digital technologies, 
liberalization, and renewable energy technologies – we present a systematic 
process of building a business model pattern taxonomy using a modified Delphi 
card sorting approach. In doing so, this paper contributes to understanding how 
patterns and pattern taxonomies can be used in business model innovation and 
provide a methodology to catalogue emerging new business models in traditional 
industries. 
Keywords 
business model patterns; business model innovation; electricity industry; 
modified-delphi card sorting. 
 
 
 

 
 
Radical Resource Efficiency as 
Business Model Innovation 
A Case Study from the Restaurant Industry 
 
Dror Etzion 
McGill University 
 
dror.etzion@mcgill.ca 
 
Abstract  
Radical resource efficiency is a design and engineering approach to manufacturing 
that can potentially yield dramatic improvements in energy and material 
productivity. This design approach proceeds through identification of systemic 
leverage points and tracing their cascading effects throughout an activity system. 
Ideally, these effects build upon and amplify each other, yielding further 
efficiencies. Because it closely aligns with the conceptualization of business 
models as systems of interconnected and supporting activities, I argue that radical 
resource efficiency can be a source of business model innovation. In this paper, I 
explore the application of radical resource efficiency principles in a restaurant in 
Montreal. The leverage point in the restaurant design was the decision to use food 
preparation technology in a novel configuration. This choice led the restaurant to 
also choose to be vegetarian and raw. The resultant activity system generated 
marked improvements in resource efficiency and at the same time led to the 
development of a compelling strategic position. However, other efficiency choices 
in the restaurant were unrelated to the food preparation leverage point, and did 
not markedly influence strategy. Analysis reveals that cascading efficiencies were 
more easily attainable towards the beginning of the restaurant’s value chain but 
more difficult to attain at its end. Moreover, because radical resource efficiency 
reduces slack, waste and flexibility it constrains expansion and scaling up. 

 
 
Keywords 
Radical resource efficiency, leverage points, activity systems, activity maps, 
sustainability 
Introduction 
Of the many business model templates devised to promote sustainability, one 
group focuses on principles of eco-design, in particular efforts to “maximize 
material productivity and energy efficiency’’ (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018: 153). 
This is an eminently course common-sensical goal because less waste contributes 
to sustainability while at the same time reducing costs and thereby improving 
profitability. Efficiency efforts are part and parcel of the quotidian work of 
designers and engineers and can easily yield to incremental improvements 
throughout value chains. But, in some instances, concerted, systemic efforts to 
reduce materials and energy usage can translate into radical innovation. 
Indeed, the promise of radical resource efficiency as a source of breakthrough 
models or production was one of the compelling arguments in the book Natural 
Capitalism (Hawken et al., 2000), an influential tract on sustainability, design, 
engineering and the economy first published in the year 2000. Perhaps the most 
elegant example of transformative innovation in the book was the hypercar, a 
radical departure from the dominant vehicular design. This re-imagination was 
made possible by a series of interconnected changes in the subsystems of a 
vehicle. The thinking that yielded this redesign is illuminative, and orients the 
research question of this study. 
The key insight behind the hypercar was the decision to make it extremely 
lightweight. Whereas typical cars are manufactured from heavy steel, the 
hypercar was built of carbon fiber, a material widely employed in race cars. The 
revelatory discovery that followed was that the weight reduction made possible 
by using carbon fiber quickly multiplied. Every pound taken away was actually 
closer to a pound and a half, since the suspension and other support mechanisms 
required for a heavy car were either eliminated or minimized. As the car became 
lighter, entire systems could be discarded entirely, such as electric steering and 
power brakes, further reducing the weight. With a lighter car, the original engine 
size seemed superfluous, and the designers were able to reduce its size and output 
so much that a traditional internal combustion engine was no longer the best 
choice. Instead, small electric engines placed near the wheels could do the job 
much more efficiently, reducing weight yet more.  

 
 
Moreover, although carbon fiber was very expensive, prohibitively so at small-
scale, it in fact introduced cost-savings at other junctures in the value chain. Pieces 
of the frame could be molded to larger sizes, dramatically reducing the number of 
components that needed to be designed and manufactured. The pieces were so 
light that people could carry them, rather than relying on cranes and lifts. They 
snapped together, rather than being welded. Paint was mixed in during 
manufacture of panels rather than sprayed on at the end of production in a 
notoriously expensive, delicate process that made heavy use of toxic materials. 
Other savings accrued after manufacturing, in the usage phase of the car’s life. 
Namely, the cost of fuel, compared to gasoline, was markedly lower. All in all, the 
hypercar demonstrated that radical resource efficiency cascaded and could 
dramatically alter how a product was designed, manufactured and used. 
These interconnected activities and cascading effects of one major design choice 
are an example of a leverage point: “a place within a complex system (a 
corporation, an economy, a living body, a city, an ecosystem) where a small shift 
in one thing can produce big changes in everything” (Meadows, 1997). Some of 
the most compelling, and perhaps disruptive, business models are those in which 
a novel insight functions as a leverage point and triggers a re-imagination of the 
activity system around which a company is structured (Yunus et al., 2010, Etzion, 
2018). For this leveraging to be impactful, the kernel of the novel idea must be 
tightly interlinked with other nodes in the organization’s activity system and 
business model (Zott & Amit, 2010). Indeed, by definition, a competitive strategy 
is one where activities reinforce each other in unique and novel ways (Porter, 
1996). The greater the compatibility and fit between activities in the system, the 
more compelling the model.  
In Natural Capitalism and elsewhere (Lovins, 2013), Hawken, Lovins and others 
suggested that opportunities for radical resource efficiency abounded. They 
described ways of laying pipes out on the factory floor in ways that dramatically 
reduced the number of pumps and motors required to propel fluids; another 
example emphasized “over-insulating” buildings in a manner that permitted HVAC 
systems to be eliminated entirely, in a process known as “tunnelling through the 
cost barrier” (Lovins et al., 1999). These examples, as compelling as they are, focus 
on material and energy-intensive production processes such as factories and 
buildings, and may be limited to operational improvements as opposed to 
strategy. Whether radical resource efficiency can yield high-impact improvements 
at smaller organizations, or in the service sector, is unknown. In this paper I 
examine whether the precepts of radical resource efficiency can inspire business 

 
 
model innovation in non-manufacturing contexts, and specifically the restaurant 
industry.  
Research context and design 
To explore this question, I studied Foodchain, a fast-casual restaurant in Montreal 
(https://eatfoodchain.com/en). Founded in 2018 by an experienced, award-
winning team consisting of two chefs, a boulanger, a designer and a management 
consultant, FoodChain’s primary business was serving lunch to workers in the 
dense downtown area where it was located. The restaurant is vegetarian, but does 
not explicitly declare itself to be oriented to sustainability, nor does it attempt to 
pursue a differentiation strategy based on organic fare. The team simply believed 
that doing business in 2018 implied making sustainability-oriented decisions, but 
that these choices did not necessarily need to be trumpeted. 
This paper is an extension of a teaching case study I wrote about Foodchain and 
its business model. Over a period of three months, I interviewed the managing 
partner repeatedly, read internal company documents, and visited the restaurant 
frequently, interacting with employees and observing the restaurant at different 
times of day.  
Key insights 
Like the hypercar, the leverage point that triggered the model redesign at 
Foodchain was one design choice that cascaded through the activity system. 
However, this choice was not related directly to sustainability. The restaurant’ 
model is, in essence, designed around a piece of machinery called a Robot-Coupe. 
Robot-Coupes are industrial-grade food processing machines often found in large 
kitchens and major food preparation centres. Robot-Coupes have been in 
existence for decades and are used all over the world to quickly slice large amounts 
of raw materials. It is rare to see more than one in a kitchen, but FoodChain has 
eight: one for each salad on the menu. This means that FoodChain can produce a 
massive amount of food very quickly – the machines are simply loaded with all the 
vegetables required for each serving of a specific salad and run through in one 
batch. The ingredients for each batch are washed, peeled, weighed and portioned 
previously, ready for processing in one bowl kept in refrigeration. Because each 
machine is dedicated to only one salad, there is no need to wash the machines 
between servings, and the bowl that holds the uncut vegetables is used to collect 
the sliced ingredients as the exit the Robot-Coupe. Slicing occurs only after an 
order is placed, so that a salad is served extremely fresh. In as little as 21 seconds 

 
 
from the moment an order is processed by the cashier, a complete salad can be 
prepared and served, although actual preparation times typically range from 60 to 
90 seconds.  
This innovative use of the machine enables a further set of choices in the 
restaurant’s business model (see Table 1):  
Table 1: Activities directly deriving from the choice to employ Robot-Coupe 
machines. 
Choice 
Rationale and implications 
No Meat 
Meat cannot be chopped in the same machine as the vegetables 
because of food safety concerns, and also because its texture is 
unsuitable; it cannot be sliced effectively. FoodChain’s 
positioning as vegetarian derived automatically. 
No Cooking 
If there is no meat in the restaurant and it is vegetarian, there is 
a possibility to not cook at all. And in fact, raw food and 
especially firm fruits and vegetables such as cauliflower, 
mushrooms, apples and cucumbers are the most suitable 
ingredients for the machine. If there is no cooking, there is no 
need for exhaust piping and ventilation systems to be installed 
and maintained. In terms of future expansion, any commercial 
space can potentially be a FoodChain site, whereas other 
restaurants 
must 
consider 
building 
specifications 
and 
ventilation feasibility.  
Minimalist 
menu 
To minimize food preparation times, washing of the machines 
between servings is unfeasible. Each salad therefore requires a 
dedicated machine, meaning that the menu has to be small. This 
simplifies kitchen operations vastly. To ensure streamlining, the 
restaurant enforces a no modifications policy; customers cannot 
ask for any changes to how a menu item is prepared. Overall, 
equipment and staff in the restaurant are always ready to 
prepare each menu item with no lead time, leading to very few 
delays in the busy lunch hour. 
 

 
 
However, other important aspects of the efficiency gains pursued by FoodChain 
do not seem to cascade directly from the choice to employ Robot-Coupes (Table 
2): 
Table 2: Activities not deriving from the choice to employ Robot-Coupe machines. 
Choice 
Rationale and implications 
No Cash 
All purchases are transacted with either credit or debit cards. 
This makes the transaction process faster and the restaurant 
more secure, because there is no cash on the premises. The 
register does not no need to be balanced at the end of the day.  
No Waste 
FoodChain recognizes that individuals often err in sorting waste 
into separate streams for waste, recycling and trash. Therefore, 
except for glass beverage bottles, all containers and utensils are 
made of compostable materials. Thus, there are only two 
streams of waste: bottles and everything else. This speeds up 
customer departure times.  
 
Figure 1 presents these discreet choices in an activity map (Porter, 1996). The 
Robot-Coupe leverage point is highlighted. Major choices, corresponding to the 
table above, are presented in dark blue. The activity map depicts the extent to 
which the choices are interconnected and comprise a compelling strategy. At the 
same time, the diagram makes apparent the cascade of choices made possible 
through radical resource efficiency. Notably the “No Cash” choice is only weakly 
linked to the other main nodes. The “No Waste” choice is linked to the choice of 
using a Robot-Coupe because it reduces cleaning, but this is a relatively minor 
linkage.  
 
 

 
 
Figure 1: FoodChain activity map. 
 
 
The managing partner at FoodChain, a former management consultant, 
emphasizes that running a restaurant is challenging because it is essentially “just-
in-time manufacturing with a retail front - using perishable items with very 
fluctuating demand”. Figure 1 suggests that the nodes that represent 
manufacturing (food preparation) – no meat, no cooking, minimalist menu – 
reveal more interconnections and a clearer cascade that emanates from the 
Robot-Coupe as leverage point. By contrast, the modes that represent the post-
manufacturing, retail phase of the value chain – no waste, no cash – are less linked 
to the Robot-Coupe, and less densely interlinked overall. 
Moreover, in terms to scaling up and impact, the activity map also shows some of 
the constraints to future expansion and diversification. Offering additional menu 
items, for example, better suited to evening menus and colder weather is 
challenging, given the tight linkages FoodChain’s efficiencies and strategy have 
created. Options to diversify into other lines of business in food preparation and 
delivery, such as catering, delivery and wholesale, are similarly limited. These are 

 
 
challenges both in terms of strategy design, and in terms of scaling up 
sustainability practices. 
Conclusion 
The Foodchain case study underscores the potential of applying principles of 
radical resource efficiency to business model design in a way that promotes 
sustainability. Not unexpectedly, the benefits of this design approach are more 
apparent in the earlier, manufacturing-like stages of the value chain in a 
restaurant, and less apparent in the post-production phase. Intuitively it indeed 
seems more difficult for radical resource efficiency to yield the same step changes 
in efficiency gains in aspects of the business that are less tightly controlled 
operationally. Retail has many more “degrees of freedom” than manufacturing. 
Activity maps, an important component of the strategy toolkit, appear to be useful 
to explore and highlight radical resource efficiency opportunities. Both radical 
resource efficiency and strategy are built on the notion that it is the connection 
between choices that determines success: not just the choices independently, but 
more importantly the tightness of the linkages between them and their density. 
Future research can further investigate the use of activity maps as a 
multifunctional tool for designing effective strategies for sustainability. Currently, 
they seem to stand apart from the tools typically employed for business mode 
generation (e.g. Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010).  
An even more ambitious goal is to develop a tool to rigorously map and test the 
compatibility between nodes and the strengths of linkages between them. It may 
be possible to employ simple scores, even a Likert scale, to assess the 
meaningfulness of each link in an activity map, and then employ measures from 
network theory to quantify the efficiency that can ensue for the business model in 
its entirety. In particular, a good measure would capture whether the model can 
generate substantive cascading effects. A tool of this type has the potential to 
compellingly identify opportunities for radical resource efficiency through 
marrying business model innovation with system dynamics. 
 
 

 
 
References 
Etzion, D. 2018. Management for sustainability. Nature Sustainability, 1, 744-749. 
Hawken, P., Lovins, A. & Lovins, L. H. 2000. Natural Capitalism: Creating the Next 
Industrial Revolution, New York, NY, Back Bay. 
Lovins, A. 2013. Reinventing fire: Bold business solutions for the new energy era, 
Chelsea Green Publishing. 
Lovins, A., Lovins, L. H. & Hawken, P. 1999. A Road Map for Natural Capitalism. 
Harvard Business Review, 77, 145-158. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L. & Breuer, H. 2018. The 
sustainable business model pattern taxonomy—45 patterns to support 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable Production 
and Consumption, 15, 145-162. 
Meadows, D. H. 1997. Places to Intervene in a System Whole Earth, 91, 78-84. 
Osterwalder, A., & Pigneur, Y. 2010. Business model generation: a handbook for 
visionaries, game changers, and challengers. John Wiley & Sons. 
Porter, M. E. 1996. What Is Strategy? Harvard Business Review, 74, 61-78. 
Yunus, M., Moingeon, B. & Lehmann-Ortega, L. 2010. Building Social Business 
Models: Lessons from the Grameen Experience. Long Range Planning, 43, 
308-325. 
Zott, C. & Amit, R. 2010. Business model design: An activity system perspective. 
Long range planning, 43, 216-226. 
 
 
 

 
 
Revealing the Sustainable Value 
Creation and Value Capture Potential 
with a Multicapital Approach 
 
Minttu Laukkanen1*, Kaisa Manninen1, Janne Huiskonen1  
 
 
1LUT University – LUT School of Engineering Science 
 
*Minttu.Laukkanen@lut.fi 
 
Abstract  
This paper clarifies the concepts of value creation and value capture related to 
sustainable business model. Additionally, the paper applies a multicapital 
approach combined with triple bottom line, multi-stakeholder and system 
dynamics perspectives, and concretizes and demonstrates sustainable value 
creation and value capture potential in a case study.  
Keywords 
Sustainable business model, value creation, value capture, multicapital approach  
Introduction  
Being a reflection of corporate sustainability strategy, sustainable business model 
(SBM) translates strategic objectives into the business logic of the company and 
further daily operations and value creation activities (Rauter et al., 2017). SBM 
aims at creating greater positive environmental and societal value overall, thus 
optimizing the value for the company itself as well as for a wider network of 
stakeholders, including society and the environment (Bocken et al., 2019). 
Essential functions of any business model are the value propositions and the value 
creation and value capture mechanisms employed (Chesbrough, 2007; Teece, 
2010). In the SBM research, the concepts of sustainable value proposition and 
sustainable value creation have risen to the center of the discussion (e.g. Bocken 

 
 
et al., 2019; Patala et al., 2016; Sulkowski et al., 2018; Yang et al., 2017), but the 
value capture of SBM is the least explored element (Morioka et al., 2018), even it 
is equally critical. The value capture represents the value that the company 
generates for itself from its value proposition (Abdelkafi and Karl Täuscher, 2016). 
The understanding of sustainable value creation is essential for targeting 
Sustainable Development Goals (United Nations, 2019) and further, the 
understanding of value capture logic is vital for the successful implementation and 
diffusion of SBMs. A company that cannot earn a profit from its value creation 
activities cannot sustain those activities over time (Chesbrough, 2007). Companies 
are mainly interested in creating sustainable value if that brings economic benefit 
(Yang and Evans, 2019), i.e. increased revenue or decreased costs (e.g. Engert et 
al., 2016; Schaltegger et al., 2012). Actually, it is not truly realistic to expect 
commercially oriented businesses to fully refocus on sustainability challenges and 
value creation for the common good (Agafonow, 2013; Dyllick and Muff, 2016). 
However, the value captured tends to be many times intangible (Morioka et al., 
2018), and companies do not see the full value capture potential. This raises the 
need for research on how companies can translate sustainable value created to 
the other stakeholders into the captured value to itself. New perspectives on 
assessing the full value capture potential are needed.  
This study aims at clarifying sustainable value creation and especially value 
capture potential. As presented in Figure 1, value creation is prerequisite for value 
capture, but on the other hand, value capture is a necessary driver for a firm to 
engage in value creation. Even if the value capture potential exists, it may not be 
fully visible for companies. This study helps companies to recognize the potential 
and motivate them to create sustainable value. Further, realized value capture 
motivates companies to create even more sustainable value leading to a virtuous 
circle. To address the aim, this study combines the prior literature and findings 
from an empirical case concerning the sustainability strategy work of the Kekkilä 
Group in 201822. The study first conceptualizes the concepts of value creation and 
value capture related to SBM. Further, this study applies a multicapital approach 
(e.g. McElroy and Thomas, 2016) as a promising perspective on assessing 
sustainable value creation and value capture potential.  
                                                 
22 http://kekkila-bvb.com/ 

 
 
 
Figure 1. Conceptual framework of the study  
 
Approach  
Multicapital approach 
Instead of focusing solely on creating customer value and capturing profits itself 
(Chesbrough, 2007; Teece, 2010), companies aim at creating economic as well as 
environmental and social value for multiple stakeholders through new SBMs (den 
Ouden, 2012; Sulkowski et al., 2018; Yang et al., 2017). The focus is not just on 
short-term profit maximization, but also other forms of non-monetary value and 
maximizing long-term well-being (den Ouden, 2012; Lankoski and Smith, 2018). 
Multicapital approach is proposed to broaden the view from shareholder benefits 
and generation of economic capital to considering the impacts on society and 
environment and other forms of vital capitals (McElroy and Thomas, 2016).  
The capital-based philosophy itself is not a new idea and there have been an 
emergent discourse of reporting on multiple capitals in the areas of corporate 
reporting and organizational accounting (Coulson et al., 2015). Recently, the 
capital-based approach is proposed to connect corporate sustainability 
performance with the concept of strong sustainability (Nikolaou et al., 2019). 
However, in SBM literature the multiple capitals are seldom used. Within SBMs, a 
capital-based approach refers to maintaining and regenerating natural, social and 
economic capital (i.e. sustainable value creation) while capturing economic value 
(Schaltegger et al., 2016). 
The capitals represent stocks of value that are the basis of company’s value 
creation, and further, all companies increase, decrease or transform capitals 
through activities (IIRC, 2019). The multicapital approach assesses the 
performance of a company in terms of what its impacts on vital capitals are 
(McElroy and Thomas, 2016). There are different categorizations for vital capitals, 
e.g. definitions used in the Integrated Reporting framework23, the Five Capitals 
                                                 
23 http://integratedreporting.org/ 

 
 
Model24 and the Multicapital Scorecard25, but when generalized, the multicapitals 
can be categorized to economic (financial and non-financial), manufactured, 
intellectual, human, social and relationship, and natural capitals. Natural capital 
(N) consists of all renewable and nonrenewable natural resources and ecosystem 
services (e.g. air, water, land, minerals, forests, biodiversity and ecosystem 
health). For example, when creating environmental value, such as increase 
biodiversity, the aim is to increase natural capital, whereas responsible use of 
resources is linked to protecting natural capital. Human capital (H) consists of 
knowledge, competencies, skills, experience, health, values, attitudes, motivation 
and ethical entitlements of individuals. Social and relationship capital (SR) refers 
to the institutions and the relationships within and between communities, groups 
of stakeholders and other networks of individuals sharing their intellectual and 
human capital. Intellectual capital is embedded in the other capitals, for example 
through the personal knowledge. Manufactured capital (M) consists of physical 
objects, systems or ecosystems created and/or cultivated by humans and used to 
create products and services, such as equipment and infrastructure. Financial 
capital (F) refers to the pool of funds available to a company, whereas non-
financial capital (NF) may or may not be monetized, such as brand value.  
Sustainable value creation and value capture potential from multicapital 
perspective 
In order to identify the forms of sustainable value creation and value capture from 
multicapital perspective, we reviewed the scientific literature on SBMs and 
corporate sustainability. We used the Finna search service of the Lappeenranta 
Academic Library, which has access to 109 databases such as EBSCOhost, Elsevier 
SD Freedom Collection, SAGE Premier, Scopus, ProQuest Central and the Wiley 
Online Library. Getting a comprehensive view, we included also practice related 
business studies (FIBS, 2018; Future-Fit, 2019; Kiron et al., 2013) into the literature 
review. We analyzed the data through the thematic content analysis method 
(Myers, 2013) resulting in the summary of sustainable value creation and value 
capture potential presented in Table 1.  
Sustainable value creation potential refers to different general sustainable value 
forms companies aim at creating for multiple stakeholders. For example, SBMs 
consider the health and safety of employees, customers and citizens through 
carefully planned and managed processes, product responsibility and value 
                                                 
24 https://www.forumforthefuture.org/ 
25 http://www.multicapitalscorecard.com/ 

 
 
creation activities contributing the well-being of society, e.g. healthy living. The 
identified sustainable value forms represent different types of vital capitals and 
the three dimensions of the triple bottom line (McElroy and Thomas, 2016). 
Further, we identified value capture potentials, which describe how part of the 
value generated for stakeholders can be transformed into value useful for the 
company (Geissdoerfer et al., 2018). In order to identify these value capture 
potentials, we reviewed the studies concerning the relationship between 
corporate sustainability activities and firm performance but also the literature on 
drivers and motives for sustainability actions. We found cost and revenue impacts 
as direct financial motivations but also several other business case drivers as well 
as other non-economic value drivers, reflecting that the objective of business may 
also be something other than profit maximization (Lankoski and Smith, 2018).  
Table 1. Sustainable value creation and value capture potential ([1] Azapacic, 2003; [2] Bocken 
et al., 2019; [3] Evans et al., 2017; [4] den Ouden, 2012; [5] Future-Fit, 2019; [6] Nikolaou et al., 
2019; [7] Patala et al., 2016; [8] Bansal and Roth, 2000; [9] Engert et al., 2016; [10] FIBS, 2018 ; 
[11] Kiron et al., 2013; [12] Schaltegger et al., 2012; [13] Svensson et al., 2018; [14] Ditlev-
Simonsen and Midtunn, 2011; [15] Saeidi et al., 2015; [16] Hockerts, 2015.) 
 
Sustainable value creation potential 
Source 
Environmental bottom line: Natural capital 
Resources (N) 
Responsible use of resources (materials, water, 
energy); Use of renewables; Reduced use of finite 
resources; 
Reduced 
need 
for 
physical 
goods/resources 
1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 
7 
Emissions (N) 
Reduced emissions; Pollution prevention (air, water, 
land) 
1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 
7 
Waste (N) 
Reduced waste and waste prevention; Waste 
management 
2; 3; 4; 6 
Biodiversity (N) 
Secured/increased biodiversity 
1; 3; 4; 6; 7 
Livability of the 
environment (N) 
The physical beauty of nature; Responsible land use; 
Reduced noise 
1; 3; 4; 7 
Environmental well-
being (N) 
Increased and ensured long-term well-being; Positive 
environmental value, e.g. afforestation 
2; 4; 5 
Social bottom line: Human, social and relationship and manufactured capitals 
Health & safety 
(H/SR) 
Product responsibility; Customer/employee/citizen 
health and safety; Ensured long-term well-being of 
society 
1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 
7 
Labour standards & 
practices (H) 
Decent working conditions, e.g. wages, benefits, 
safety at work, job satisfaction  
1; 3; 7 
Stakeholder & 
human rights (SR) 
Respecting employee, stakeholder and human rights, 
e.g. no child labor or forced labor 
1; 5; 6; 7 
Ethical principles (SR) 
E.g. honest competition, anti-corruption; No harmful 
social impacts 
5; 6; 7 

 
 
Equality & diversity 
(H) 
Equal opportunities and non-discrimination 
1; 3; 4; 6; 7 
Training & education 
(H) 
Employee/customer/stakeholder 
training 
and 
education 
1; 6 
Partnerships (SR) 
Fruitful and reciprocal relationships 
1; 4 
Community 
development (SR) 
Belonging; Support of locals; Secure livelihood; 
Encouraged sufficiency and sustainable living 
2; 3; 4; 6; 7 
Social well-being 
(H/SR) 
Happiness; The well-being of larger groups of people 
3; 4; 5 
Economic bottom line: Economic financial and non-financial capital 
Employment (NF, F) 
Job creation, employment 
1; 6; 7 
Viability & stability 
(NF) 
Viability/resilience/stability 
of 
the 
network/ecosystem 
2; 3; 4 
Wealth (F) 
Wealth at individual/company/societal levels, e.g. 
contribution 
to 
GDP; 
Economic 
benefits 
for 
stakeholders 
1; 2; 4 
Value capture potential 
Source 
Economic financial value drivers  
Costs (F) 
Cost reduction 
1; 8; 9; 10; 11; 
12; 13 
Revenue & profit (F) 
Increasing revenue and profit margins; Price 
premium 
1; 8; 9; 10; 11; 
12; 13; 14 
Economic non-financial value drivers 
Stock value (NF) 
Higher stock price; Long-term value for shareholders 
1; 8; 10; 14 
Competitive 
advantage (NF) 
Strategically integrated corporate sustainability; Cost 
leadership and differentiation; Competencies 
8; 9; 10; 11; 
13; 14; 15 
Risk management 
(NF) 
Risk reduction, e.g. reduced risk of pollution incidents 
1; 8; 9; 10; 11; 
12; 16 
Efficiency & quality 
(NF) 
Increased eco-, resource- or socio-efficiency (e.g. 
employee productivity) and product quality; Better 
control of processes 
1; 8; 10; 11; 
13; 16 
Market share (NF) 
New markets; Larger market share 
8; 11; 16 
Stability & resilience 
(NF) 
Ensured good operating conditions for the future; 
Long-term sustainability and survival 
8; 10 
Reputation & brand 
value (NF) 
Sustainability 
as 
a 
component 
of 
corporate 
reputation; Increased reputation and brand value  
1; 9; 10; 12; 
13; 14; 15 
Other business value drivers 
Customer satisfaction 
(SR) 
Increased ability to meet (sustainability oriented) 
customer expectations; Perceived sustainable value 
1; 10; 11; 15 
Stakeholder 
satisfaction (SR) 
Increased ability to meet (sustainability oriented) 
stakeholder expectations, e.g. sustainability-oriented 
investors/supply chain partners 
1; 9; 11; 14 
Stakeholder 
relationships (SR) 
Enhanced and open/trusted/transparent customer/ 
stakeholder relationships; Attractiveness as partner 
1; 10; 11 

 
 
Attractiveness as 
employer (SR) 
Employee motivation and satisfaction; Ensured 
employees commitment; Attracting new/top talents  
1; 8; 10; 11; 12 
Innovation 
capabilities (H/SR) 
Increased capability to innovate due to thinking in 
diverse dimensions  
8; 9; 10; 11; 
12; 14 
Other value drivers 
License to operate 
(SR) 
Maintaining license to operate; Social license to 
operate  
1; 8; 9; 10; 11 
Social & 
environmental 
responsibility (H/SR)  
Contributing to long-term sustainable development; 
Increased individual satisfaction, morale and “doing 
right thing” feelings 
8; 9; 13; 14 
 
Many previous studies on corporate sustainability have focused on “does it pay to 
be green” and have identified individual causal links between corporate 
sustainability activities and economic performance of a company. However, the 
value capture of sustainable value creation activities is multidimensional and 
complex process, when a more systemic and dynamic approach is needed. An 
integrative approach that can systematize and structure all, not just individual, 
unidirectional links is required (Lankoski, 2008). The link between sustainable 
value creation activities and company financial performance is fully mediated 
relationship (Saeidi et al., 2015), for example, increased reputation and 
competitive advantage followed by higher customer satisfaction or employee 
satisfaction, innovativeness and efficiency gains are external and internal 
mediators in the relationship between sustainable value creation activities and 
captured economic value (Saeidi et al., 2015; Schreck, 2011). Mediators help 
explain why does it pay to be green or not and further, contingencies, i.e. 
moderators (e.g. the industry company is part of, company characteristics, such as 
large vs. small firms) help explain when does it pay to be green (Dixon-Fowler et 
al., 2013; Schreck, 2011). To understand how companies create sustainable value 
and can benefit from these activities, requires paying attention to interactions 
among multiple stakeholders as well as long-term outcomes (Ortiz-de-Mandojana 
and Bansal, 2016; Sulkowski et al., 2018). However, what is profitable for one 
company or benefits one stakeholder or increases value in one dimension of 
sustainability may not be profitable for another company or destroys value from 
another stakeholder´s perspective or in another dimension of sustainability 
(Lankoski, 2008; van Bommel, 2018; Yang et al., 2017). This raises the complexity 
even more. Therefore, we suggest a multicapital approach combined with system 
dynamics perspective (Abdelkafi and Täuscher, 2016) and triple bottom line and 
multi-stakeholder perspectives to assess sustainable value creation and value 
capture potential.  

 
 
Key insights 
As we discussed in previous chapter, within SBMs, the value is seen as multiple 
environmental, social and economic value forms, and value creation is considered 
from multi-stakeholder perspective and covered impacts on multiple vital capitals. 
Therefore, we propose that SBMs’ value creation as well as value capture 
potential, assessed in multiple capitals, is higher compared to more traditional 
business models focusing on customer value and profit maximization.  
We concretize and demonstrate the sustainable value creation and value capture 
potential of SBM through multicapital approach in a case study concerning Kekkilä 
Group’s sustainability strategy work. Kekkilä has ambitious goal to move from 
market-driven company to the company that shapes the future by being a part of 
a larger food system and solving a global food challenge. It has set six sustainability 
initiatives aiming to address the challenges related to global food production and 
contribute sustainable development. We use one of those initiatives, creating 
sustainable product portfolio and services and it’s three intended sustainability 
impacts (i.e. sustainable value propositions): saved natural resources, improved 
well-being and more sustainable socio-ecological systems, as an example. Figure 2 
illustrates (at a high level) how this initiative aims to create sustainable value for 
multiple stakeholders, i.e. users, actors in network level and broader in society, 
and further, what motivates the company to create sustainable value, i.e. what is 
the value capture potential. The sustainable value creation potential is expressed 
as multiple value forms and capitals. Further, the sustainable value creation 
potential perceived by multiple stakeholders is translated into value capture 
potential by the company, which is expressed as direct and indirect effects and 
monetary and non-monetary value potentials. 

 
 
 
Figure 2. Multicapital perspective to sustainable value creation and value capture 

 
 
For example, the initiative aims at saving natural resources. From stakeholders’ 
perspective, this creates environmental value, such as decreased eco-footprint, 
increased sustainability, livability of the environment and environmental well-
being, and increases or protects natural capital. From company’s perspective, 
saved natural resources means increased eco-effectiveness, customer or 
stakeholder satisfaction and environmental responsibility. Eco-effectiveness is 
directly translated into financial capital through cost reduction, whereas increase 
in environmental responsibility and social and relationship and human capitals are 
not directly translated into financial capital. However, increase in environmental 
responsibility might lead to better risk management and further cost reduction or 
increase in brand value and further increase in sales and profit margin in the long 
run. Our analysis shows that other intended impacts, improved well-being and 
more sustainable socio-ecological systems, are not directly translated into 
financial capital, referring to that they both have the social welfare as the end 
objective (Lankoski and Smith, 2017). Profit can be as one of the end objectives, 
but solely not. However, improved well-being and more sustainable socio-
ecological systems increase other forms of capitals that are possibly realized as 
financial capital indirectly, even if that is sometimes uncertain and is not just 
dependent on company’s own actions. This may lead to temporal tension, i.e. 
trade-off between short-term and long-term sustainability orientation, and there 
is a risk to undervalue long-term outcomes (Hahn et al., 2015).  
The approach presented in Figure 2 looks quite linear and static but revealing the 
full sustainable value creation and value capture potential demand more dynamic 
approach. Figure 3 adopts the idea of virtuous cycles in business models 
(Casadesus-Masanell and Ricart, 2011) that describe how the positive effects of 
implementing sustainability activity encourage to increase the sustainability 
efforts even more, i.e. generating positive feedback loops. Kekkilä’s choice to 
create sustainable product portfolio and services have several potential 
consequences relating to sustainable value creation and further value capture 
potential. First, adopting the sustainable product portfolio and services lead to 
improvements in company’s own processes relating to increased resource 
efficiency translated directly into cost reductions, and increased innovation 
capabilities translated into opportunities to decrease costs and/or increase 
revenues. Second, multiple stakeholders perceive new sustainable products and 
services as valuable allowing the company to capture value out of its value 
propositions. In this connection, we identified three types of virtuous cycles based 
on different motivations to create sustainable value. 

 
 
 
Figure 4. Potential virtuous cycles to sustainable value creation and value capture 

 
 
For example, responding to customer/stakeholder demand by creating more 
sustainable product portfolio and expecting increased revenues for that, 
represent the first type, which focus on direct economic incentives and increases 
in company’s financial capital. The second type covers sustainability activities 
derived by indirect economic incentives. For example, the use of peat, which is 
categorized as fossil resource in the EU ETS, is a central part of Kekkilä’s business 
model. More sustainable use of peat lead to better risk management, which in 
turn may lead to financial gains and foster to develop even more sustainable 
product portfolio. Additionally, we found commitment to social and 
environmental responsibility as intrinsic value, not a preidentified path to cost 
reduction or increased revenue. For example, Kekkilä envisions empowering 
citizens, building communities and supporting community gardening to support 
food security.  
Discussion and conclusions 
This study has three main contributions. First, the study clarifies the concepts of 
value creation and value capture related to SBM by providing more detailed 
categorization of different value forms, i.e. the summary of sustainable value 
creation and value capture potential. Second, this study demonstrates the 
sustainable value creation and value capture potential of SBM through 
multicapital approach. It concretizes sustainable value creation, when potential 
impacts are indicated to certain capital. Therefore, their value form is easier to 
identify and further translate to value capture potential. In Kekkilä case, many of 
the impacts were somewhat abstract by nature and multicapital approach guided 
to consider the value creation potential from different perspectives. Third, the 
study adopts system dynamic perspective and the idea of virtuous cycles in 
business models to identify positive feedback loops between sustainable value 
creation and value capture that continuously strengthen the SBM development.   
From theoretical perspective, this is an attempt to foster the development of 
unified definitions, and the approaches presented in this study provide premises 
for more detailed design and analysis of the sustainable value creation and capture 
potential of new SBMs. From managerial perspective, this study explains the value 
capture potential of sustainable value creation to foster the adoption of more 
SBMs. Tensions, trade-offs and conflicts in sustainable value creation represent 
the rule rather than the exception, hence turning a blind eye to value destruction 
perspective leads to a limited effort towards sustainable development (Hahn et 
al., 2015). Therefore, we propose that further research should integrate 
multicapital approach with the analysis of tensions more closely.  

 
 
References 
Abdelkafi, N. & Täuscher, K. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability From a 
System Dynamics Perspective. Organization and Environment. 29(1), 74-96.  
Agafonow, A. (2013) Toward a positive theory of social entrepreneurship. On 
maximizing versus satisficing value capture. Journal of Business Ethics. 125 
(4), 709-713. 
Azapagic, A. (2003) Systems approach to corporate sustainability: A general 
management framework. Process Safety and Environmental Protection: 
Transactions of the Institution of Chemical Engineers, Part B. 81(5), 303-316. 
Bansal, P. & Roth, K. (2000) Why companies go green: A model of ecological 
responsiveness. Academy of Management Journal. 43(4), 717-736. 
Bocken, N., Boons, F. & Baldassarre, B. (2019) Sustainable business model 
experimentation by understanding ecologies of business models. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 208, 1498-1512. 
van Bommel, K. (2018) Managing tensions in sustainable business models: 
Exploring instrumental and integrative strategies. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 196, 829-841. 
Casadesus-Masanell, R. & Ricart, J.E. (2011) How to design a winning business 
model. Harvard business review. 89(1/2), 100-107. 
Chesbrough, H. (2007) Business model innovation: It's not just about technology 
anymore. Strategy and Leadership. 35(6), 12-17.  
Coulson, A.B., Adams, C.A., Nugent, M.N. & Haynes, K. (2015) Exploring metaphors 
of capitals and the framing of multiple capitals. Sustainability Accounting, 
Management and Policy Journal. 6, 290-314. 
Ditlev-Simonsen, C.D. & Midttun, A. (2011) What motivates managers to pursue 
corporate responsibility? a survey among key stakeholders. Corporate Social 
Responsibility and Environmental Management. 18(1), 25-38. 
Dixon-Fowler, H.R., Slater, D.J., Johnson, J.L., Ellstrand, A.E. & Romi, A.M. (2013) 
Beyond "does it pay to be green?" A meta-analysis of moderators of the CEP-
CFP relationship. Journal of Business Ethics. 112(2), 353-366. 
Dyllick, T. & Muff, K. (2016) Clarifying the meaning of sustainable business: 
Introducing a typology from business-as-usual to true business 
sustainability. Organization & Environment. 29, 156-174. 
Engert, S., Rauter, R. & Baumgartner, R.J. (2016) Exploring the integration of 
corporate sustainability into strategic management: A literature review. 
Journal of Cleaner Production. 112, 2833-2850. 

 
 
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Van Fossen, K., Yang, M., Silva, E.A. & 
Barlow, C.Y. (2017) Business model innovation for sustainability: Towards a 
unified perspective for creation of sustainable business models. Business 
Strategy and the Environment. 26, 597-608. 
FIBS. 
(2018) 
Sustainability 
in 
Finland 
2018 
summary. 
Available: 
https://www.fibsry.fi/wp-
content/uploads/2018/05/FIBS_Sustainability2018_Summary.pdf 
[Accessed 5th May 2019]. 
Future-Fit. 
(2019) 
Future-Fit 
Business 
Benchmark. 
Available: 
https://futurefitbusiness.org/resources/ [Accessed 5th May 2019].  
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D. & Evans, S. (2018) Sustainable business model 
innovation: A review. Journal of Cleaner Production. 198, 401-416. 
Hahn, T., Pinkse, J., Preuss, L. & Figge, F. (2015) Tensions in Corporate 
Sustainability: Towards an Integrative Framework. Journal of Business Ethics, 
127, 297-316.  
Hockerts, K. (2015) A cognitive perspective on the business case for corporate 
sustainability. Business Strategy and the Environment. 24(2), 102-122. 
IIRC. 
(2019) 
Get 
to 
grips 
with 
the 
six 
capitals. 
Available 
from: 
http://integratedreporting.org/what-the-tool-for-better-reporting/get-to-
grips-with-the-six-capitals/ [Accessed 30th January 2019]. 
Kiron, D., Kruschwitz, N., Haanaes, K., Reeves, M. & Goh, E. (2013) The innovation 
bottom 
line. 
Available: 
https://sloanreview.mit.edu/projects/the-
innovation-bottom-line/ [Accessed 5th May 2019]. 
Lankoski, L. (2008) Corporate responsibility activities and economic performance: 
A theory of why and how they are connected. Business Strategy and the 
Environment. 17(8), 536-547. 
Lankoski, L. & Smith, N.C. (2018) Alternative objective functions for firms. 
Organization and Environment. 31(3), 242-262. 
McElroy, M.W. & Thomas, M.P. (2016) The multicapital scorecard. Vermont, 
Chelsea Green Publishing. 
Morioka, S.N., Bolis, I., Evans, S. & Carvalho, M.M. (2018) Transforming 
sustainability challenges into competitive advantage: Multiple case studies 
kaleidoscope converging into sustainable business models. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 167, 723-738. 
Myers, M.D. (2013) Qualitative research in business & management. (2nd ed.). Los 
Angeles, Sage. 
Nikolaou, I.E., Tsalis, T.A. & Evangelinos, K.I. (2019) A framework to measure 
corporate sustainability performance: A strong sustainability-based view of 
firm. Sustainable Production and Consumption. 18, 1-18. 

 
 
Ortiz-de-Mandojana, N. & Bansal, P. (2016) The long-term benefits of 
organizational resilience through sustainable business practices. Strategic 
Management Journal. 37(8), 1615-1631. 
den Ouden, E. (2012) Innovation design. Creating value for people, organizations 
and society. London, Springer. 
Patala, S., Jalkala, A., Keränen, J., Väisänen, S., Tuominen, V. & Soukka, R. (2016) 
Sustainable value propositions: Framework and implications for technology 
suppliers. Industrial Marketing Management. 59, 144-156. 
Rauter, R., Jonker, J. & Baumgartner, R.J. (2017) Going one's own way: drivers in 
developing business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
140, 144-154.  
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business models for 
sustainability: Origins, present research, and future avenues. Organization 
and Environment. 29(1), 3-10.  
Saeidi, S.P., Sofian, S., Saeidi, P., Saeidi, S.P. & Saaeidi, S.A. (2015) How does 
corporate social responsibility contribute to firm financial performance? The 
mediating role of competitive advantage, reputation, and customer 
satisfaction. Journal of Business Research. 68(2), 341-350. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E.G. (2012) Business cases for 
sustainability: The role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability. International Journal of Innovation and Sustainable 
Development. 6(2), 95-119.  
Schreck, P. (2011) Reviewing the business case for corporate social responsibility: 
New evidence and analysis. Journal of Business Ethics. 103(2), 167-188. 
Sulkowski, A.J., Edwards, M. & Freeman, R.E. (2018) Shake Your Stakeholder: Firms 
Leading Engagement to Cocreate Sustainable Value. Organization & 
Environment. 31, 223-241. 
Svensson, G., Ferro, C., Høgevold, N., Padin, C., Carlos Sosa Varela, J. & Sarstedt, 
M. (2018) Framing the triple bottom line approach: Direct and mediation 
effects between economic, social and environmental elements. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 197, 972-991. 
Teece, D.J. (2010) Business models, business strategy and innovation. Long range 
planning. 43, 172-194. 
United Nations. (2019) About the sustainable development goals. Available from: 
https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-
goals/ [Accessed 5th May 2019]. 
Yang, M. & Evans, S. (2019) Product-service system business model archetypes 
and sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. 220, 1156-1166.  

 
 
Yang, M., Evans, S., Vladimirova, D. & Rana, P. (2017) Value uncaptured 
perspective for sustainable business model innovation. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 140, 1794-1804. 
 
 

 
 
Small but More Sustainable?  
Business Case and Barriers Perceptions in SMEs and 
Large Firms 
 
Silvia Cantele 
 
Department of Business Administration – University of Verona - Italy  
 
silvia.cantele@univr.it 
 
Abstract 
Sustainability is more and more becoming a critical success factor for firms; the 
shared value and business case for sustainability conceptions can support business 
model change or innovation towards sustainable business models (SBM). Small 
firms are the most spread organizational model worldwide and can play a relevant 
role in terms of economic and social development. The corporate social 
responsibility literature have often depicted small business as less engaged and 
more constrained with respect to environmental and social practices. This paper 
aims to translate the organizational size debate in the field of SBM, by analyzing 
small and large firms’ perceptions about their drivers to business case and their 
implementation constraints towards a more sustainable business model. 
Keywords 
Sustainable business model, business case for sustainability, small business, 
barriers, drivers. 
Introduction  
Effective implementation of sustainability into firms’ business models requires a 
strategic perspective (Baumgartner and Rauter, 2017), leading to a new vision on 
firms’ mission, strategies and operations. 

 
 
The literature has recently highlighted the need to think strategically about 
sustainability, in order to overcome the old ideas about corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) as moral obligation and external-driven initiative hardly 
incorporated in business processes (Frederick, 1994). 
The shared value concept (Porter and Kramer, 2007 and 2011) has recognized a 
strategic role to the integration of societal progress into business aims: firms can 
gain competitive advantages from incorporating social needs in their strategies 
and business models, so that economic and social value can simultaneously be 
produced. To reach this purpose, a shift from a responsive CSR towards a strategic 
one is needed: firms can incorporate shared value by reconceiving products and 
markets, by redefining productivity in the value chain and by enabling local cluster 
development (Porter and Kramer, 2011). 
Firms’ strategic approach towards changes led by sustainability can be described 
with taxonomies already proposed for corporate social responsiveness models 
(Wilson, 1975; Carroll, 1979): the shift from reactive, defensive, accommodative 
and proactive posture indicates an increasing degree of integration of 
environmental and social issues into strategies and business. 
The passage to higher degrees of integration could be facilitated by the 
recognition of the business case for sustainability (Schaltegger et al. 2012), which 
in turn is led by specific drivers in the mind of sustainable entrepreneurs (Jolink 
and Niesten, 2015): cost and cost reduction, risk and risk reduction, sales and 
profit margin, reputation and brand value, attractiveness as employer, innovative 
capabilities. 
These drivers are in fact describing the potential positive impact of sustainability 
implementation on the financial model pillar of the business model (Ballon, 2007) 
or on other measures of firm success that can be considered as mediators of 
financial performance (Cantele and Zardini, 2018). The business model is the link 
between strategies and operational activities (Rauter et al. 2017) and embedding 
sustainability inside it means rethinking business model components 
(Osterwalder, 2004) to reach a sustainable business model (SBM) (Stubbs and 
Cocklin, 2008, Boons and Ludeke-Freund, 2013, Bocken et al. 2014) or a business 
model for sustainability (BMfS) (Schaltegger et al. 2016). 
The recent and quickly developing literature on SBM and BMfS is multifaceted, 
having deepened different aspects of the topic: theoretical classification of 

 
 
archetypes (Bocken et al. 2014) and patterns (Ludeke-Freund et al. 2018), new 
tools and frameworks to represent the business models and the value creation 
(Bocken et al. 2013, 2015, Joyce and Paquin, 2016), and a lot of case studies in 
different industries and contexts (Dentchev et al. 2018). Further studies have also 
added insights on internal and external drivers of SBM (Rauter et al. 2017) and on 
barriers or hindering factors (Engert et al. 2016; Laukkanen and Patala, 2014). 
Among organizational factors and potential drivers and barriers (Cantele and 
Zardini, forthcoming), the size of the firm has not been studied in deep among 
SBM literature, exept for a few cases (e.g. Collins et al. 2007 and Wells, 2016); few 
studies have analyzed the peculiarities of SMEs in terms of sustainability 
management or innovation, mainly in light of knowledge-based or resource-based 
approaches (Bos-Brouwers, 2010; Halme and Korpela, 2014; Hörisch et al. 2015, 
Klewitz and Hansen, 2014), while more contributions can be found in a more 
“traditional” stream of literature dedicated to corporate social responsibility in 
SMEs, where these firms are depicted as constrained by a list of limitations and 
barriers (Vázquez-Carrasco & López-Pérez, 2013): lack of time, resources, 
appropriate information and support services (El Baz et al. 2016, Jamali et al. 2009, 
Roberts et al. 2006) or difficulties in measuring the benefits and maintaining the 
momentum of activities (Jenkins, 2006) or in establishing the business case 
(Battisti and Perry 2011, Lee, Herold and Yu 2015). 
Research design and method 
Taking for granted the relevance of SMEs in terms of economic, social and 
environmental impacts worldwide, this paper aims to contribute to a renovated 
debate on size differences in the more recent context of SBM literature. In 
particular it aims to answer to the following research questions: 
What barriers and drivers do SMEs perceive in the implementation of their 
sustainable business models?  
What SMEs think about large firm’s approach towards sustainability and 
viceversa?  
The research has been conducted with a qualitative methodology, by analyzing 
data from interviews, reports and other internal documents collected in 30 Italian 
firms of different size (13 small, 6 medium and 11 large firms). The semi-structured 
interviews were made with key-informants in the firms, mainly the president, CEO 

 
 
or higher management staff, and followed an interview guide including open 
questions about their vision of sustainability and firm purposes, together with 
more precise requirements in terms of management practices, business models, 
benefits and constraints experienced in sustainability implementation. The firms 
were selected as known for their social and environmental commitment; the 
analysis followed an inductive coding process informed by the aims of the research 
(Creswell, 2003; Miles, Huberman, and Saldaña, 2014). 
Key insights and implications  
The analysis of the interviews highlighted that small entrepreneurs have a clear 
perception of the business case for sustainability; among the benefits described, 
most were referred to the possibility to gain competitive advantage through 
differentiation policies enabled by sustainability practices and products; also 
customer satisfaction, a more effective management, employees’ commitment 
and product innovation were cited. Despite this clear recognition, about all 
entrepreneurs assert that benefits can only be acquired in the long run, and that 
they are difficult to measure. The long-term perspective is also cited in terms of 
time span for firm’s aims: implementing sustainability cannot be associated with 
a short-term perspective; but even if entrepreneurs assert to be driven by their 
innate values (“sustainability is in the DNA”), they all have in mind the economic 
driver as essential. Explicit economic benefits are identified by some 
entrepreneurs in terms of consumption and cost reduction and increase of sales 
by product innovation. But in most cases sustainability is perceived as leading 
extra-costs, that are not always covered by a sufficient market acknowledgement. 
Large firms’ interviews show the relevance of external pressures from customers, 
community and other stakeholders, while internal factors, and in particular the 
entrepreneur’s approach towards sustainability, appear the most influential for 
SMEs. 
Large firms also assert the pivotal role of reputation as driver of sustainability 
practices, while a strategic approach towards differentiation is less felt than it is in 
SMEs. 
Among barriers and hindering factors some entrepreneurs also cited the lack of 
public administration support or the bureaucratic burden of some certifications or 
other sustainability tools; but none of these factors (neither the costs, nor the 
bureaucracy and the difficult market recognition) appears as a decisive obstacle. 

 
 
The main focus of most entrepreneurs (both small and large) is on business 
culture, which is perceived as the key factor which, if present, could lead to 
overcome potential barriers; by contrast, when sustainability is not embedded in 
entrepreneur’s culture, the potential barriers become effective. 
When asked to describe the perceived differences between SMEs and large firms, 
most interviewees assert that sustainability implementation could be easier for 
SMEs due to their rapid decision process; resources limitation cited by most of the 
literature, in the interviews appears mainly referred to organizational structure 
(only one or few people to preside over each function) and employees 
competencies, rather than to financial constraints; only large see small firms as 
financial constrained, while among small entrepreneurs the perception is  that “it 
can be done with what one’s got”. The other difference revealed by small 
entrepreneurs’ interviews (but not explicitly acknowledged by large firms’ 
interviewees) is the perception of large firms as obliged  to be responsive, and 
most of time without a genuine embeddedness of sustainability into business 
models, which lead to greenwashing or façade initiatives. 
This synthetic analysis of first insights has highlighted that differently from what 
often indicated by the CSR literature, small business are not necessarily unaware 
of the economic driver of sustainability, but conversely do believe it can lead to 
organizational success, even if in a long-term perspective. Further, their initiatives 
sometimes appear more embedded than those of large firms in their business 
models: even though some limitations are perceived, these are not determining 
factors against implementation, while this risk could be higher for large firms 
constrained by their less flexible and more “traditional” business models, which 
often lead to façade and short-term initiatives, rather than to radical innovation 
towards sustainability. 
References 
Ballon, P. (2007) ‘Business modelling revisited: the configuration of control and 
value’, 
The 
Journal 
of 
Policy, 
Regulation 
and 
Strategy 
for 
Telecommunications, Information and Media, Vol. 9, No. 5, pp.6–19. 
Battisti, M., & Perry, M. (2011). Walking the talk? Environmental responsibility 
from the perspective of small-business owners. Corporate Social 
Responsibility and Environmental Management, 18(3), 172–185.  
Baumgartner, R. J., & Rauter, R. (2017). Strategic perspectives of corporate 
sustainability management to develop a sustainable organization. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 140, 81–92. 

 
 
Bocken N.M.P., Rana P. & Short S.W. (2015) Value mapping for sustainable 
business thinking, Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering, 32:1, 67-
81 
Bocken, N. M. P., Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2013) "A value mapping tool 
for sustainable business modelling", Corporate Governance, Vol. 13 Issue: 5, 
pp.482-497  
Bocken, N. M. P., Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014). A literature and practice 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 65, 42–56.  
Boons, F., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013). Business models for sustainable innovation: 
State-of-the-art and steps towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 45, 9–19. 
Bos‐Brouwers, H. E. J. (2010). Corporate sustainability and innovation in SMEs: 
evidence of themes and activities in practice. Business strategy and the 
environment, 19(7), 417-435.  
Cantele, S., & Zardini, A. (2018). Is sustainability a competitive advantage for small 
businesses? An empirical analysis of possible mediators in the sustainability–
financial performance relationship. Journal of Cleaner Production, 182, 166-
176. 
Cantele, S., & Zardini, A. (forthcoming). What drives small and medium enterprises 
towards sustainability? Role of interactions between pressures, barriers, and 
benefits. Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management. 
Carroll, A.B. (1979) ‘A three-dimensional conceptual model of corporate 
performance’, Academy of Management Review, Vol. 4, No. 4, pp.497–505. 
Creswell, J. W. (2003). Research design: Qualitative, quantitative, and mixed 
methods approaches. London, England: SAGE 
Collins, E., Lawrence, S., Pavlovich, K., & Ryan, C. (2007). Business networks and 
the uptake of sustainability practices: the case of New Zealand. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 15(8-9), 729-740.  
Dentchev, N., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, 
R., ... & Jonker, J. (2018). Embracing the variety of sustainable business 
models: A prolific field of research and a future research agenda. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 194, 695-703. 
El Baz, J., Laguir, I., Marais, M., & Staglianò, R. (2016). Influence of national 
institutions on the corporate social responsibility practices of small- and 
medium-sized enterprises in the food-processing industry: Differences 
between France and Morocco. Journal of Business Ethics, 134(1), 117–133.  
Engert, S., Rauter, R., & Baumgartner, R. J. (2016). Exploring the integration of 
corporate sustainability into strategic management: a literature review. 
Journal of cleaner production, 112, 2833-2850.  

 
 
Frederick, W. C. (1994) ‘From CSR1 to CSR2 the maturing of business-and-society 
thought’. Business & Society, Vol. 33, No. 2, pp. 150-164. 
Halme, M., & Korpela, M. (2014). Responsible innovation toward sustainable 
development in small and medium‐sized enterprises: a resource 
perspective. Business Strategy and the Environment, 23(8), 547-566.  
Hörisch, J., Johnson, M. P., & Schaltegger, S. (2015). Implementation of 
sustainability management and company size: A knowledge‐based view. 
Business Strategy and the Environment, 24(8), 765-779.  
Jamali, D., Zanhour, M., & Keshishian, T. (2009). Peculiar strengths and relational 
attributes of SMEs in the context of CSR. Journal of Business Ethics, 87(3), 
355–377.   
Jenkins, H. (2006). Small business champions for corporate social responsibility. 
Journal of Business Ethics, 67(3), 241–256. 
Jolink, A., & Niesten, E. (2015). Sustainable development and business models of 
entrepreneurs in the organic food industry. Business Strategy and the 
Environment, 24(6), 386-401. 
Joyce, A., & Paquin, R. L. (2016). The triple layered business model canvas: A tool 
to design more sustainable business models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
135, 1474-1486. 
Klewitz, J., & Hansen, E. G. (2014). Sustainability-oriented innovation of SMEs: a 
systematic review. Journal of cleaner production, 65, 57-75. 
Laukkanen, M., & Patala, S. (2014). Analysing barriers to sustainable business 
model innovations: Innovation systems approach. International Journal of 
Innovation Management, 18(06), 1440010. 
Lee, K. H., Herold, D. M., & Yu, A. L. (2016). Small and medium enterprises and 
corporate social responsibility practice: A Swedish perspective. Corporate 
Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 23(2), 88–99. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L., & Breuer, H. (2018). The 
sustainable business model pattern taxonomy—45 patterns to support 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable Production 
and Consumption, 15, 145-162. 
Miles, M. B., Huberman, A. M., & Saldana, J. (2014). Qualitative data analysis. Sage. 
Osterwalder, A. (2004) ‘The business model ontology. A proposition in a design 
science approach’, PhD thesis, Universite de Lausanne, Switzerland 
Porter, M. E., & Kramer, M. R. (2007). Strategy and society: The link between 
competitive advantage and corporate social responsibility. Harvard Business 
Review, 85(6), 136-137.  
Porter, M. E., & Kramer, M. R. (2011). Creating shared value. Harvard Business 
Review, 89, 62–77.  

 
 
Rauter, R., Jonker, J., & Baumgartner, R. J. (2017). Going one's own way: drivers in 
developing business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
140, 144-154. 
Roberts, S., Lawson, R., & Nicholls, J. (2006). Generating regional-scale 
improvements in SME corporate responsibility performance: Lessons from 
Responsibility Northwest. Journal of Business Ethics, 67(3), 275–286.  
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Hansen, E. (2012). Business cases for 
sustainability: The role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability. International Journal of Innovation and Sustainable 
Development, 6(2), 95–119. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Hansen, E. G. (2016). Business models for 
sustainability: Origins, present research, and future avenues. Organization & 
Environment, 29(1), 3-10 
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a sustainability business model. 
Organization & Environment, 21, 103e127.  
Vázquez-Carrasco, R., & López-Pérez, M. E. (2013). Small & medium-sized 
enterprises and Corporate Social Responsibility: a systematic review of the 
literature. Quality & Quantity, 47(6), 3205-3218. 
Wells, P. (2016). Economies of scale versus small is beautiful: A business model 
approach based on architecture, principles and components in the beer 
industry. Organization & Environment, 29(1), 36-52. 
Wilson, I. (1975) ‘What one company is doing about today’s demands on business’, 
in Steiner, G.A. (Ed.): Changing Business-society Interrelationships, Los 
Angeles Graduate School of Management, UCLA  

 
 
Social and psychological product value 
perceptions 
An exploratory study 
 
João M. S. Carvalho1,*, Sandra Marnoto2, Célio A. A. Sousa3 
 
1CICS.NOVA.UMinho / UNICES-University Institute of Maia, Portugal; 
2INESC-TEC-UP / UNICES-University Institute of Maia, Portugal; 
3UNICES-University Institute of Maia, Portugal. 
 
*jcarvalho@ismai.pt 
 
Extended abstract  
The distributed value is perceived by the customer as the difference between the 
total value and the total cost of the product (good, service, idea, information, 
experience), also corresponding to the perceived value of use of the product, 
which includes experiences, sensations and mental states. Note that the total cost 
to the customer comprises all types of costs, financial (price, ability to pay, 
opportunity cost) and non-financial costs (physical, psychological and social 
aspects related to the use of the product, such as accessibility, embarrassment, 
usability, etc.), in which he expects to incur to evaluate, obtain and use the 
product. 
The tetrad-value theory (Carvalho & Sousa, 2015, 2018) enhance the traditional 
approach of the Triple Bottom Line (Elkington, 1997) and includes economic, 
social, ecological and psychological values. 
The economic value exists in all type of product, being the basis for its existence 
in the market. For the organization, this type of value consists of revenue and 
profit, which may not only be of a financial nature. For example, for an 
organization with social purposes, non-financial profit goes through the effective 
fulfillment of its specific mission. The economic value for the customer has to do 

 
 
with the satisfaction of their need through the product acquired. There may also 
be economic value for society, through job creation and wealth growth, as well as 
economic externalities, which are shared by various stakeholders. 
Social value may or may not exist in a product. It is closely linked to other types of 
values, manifesting itself in better processes of socialization, increased social 
inclusion, equal opportunities, increased health and/or safety in the community, 
or by increasing the quality of life of the society. Thus, this type of value is more 
common in social products linked to the activity of the third sector, although it 
also exists in many for-profit financial products. Thus, when the product has social 
value, then it will have an added value for the customers. 
Other important value is ecological, which is related to the environment, 
sustainability and protection of the planet. The concern with this type of value has 
become general, since our quality of life depends on how we produce the products 
and consume them, avoiding as much as possible a negative ecological footprint 
for life on the planet. Not all products have an ecological value, but it is an 
important asset when it is created. 
The fourth value - psychological or transformational value - is often confused with 
social value, probably because it has a special impact on it, being integrated into 
that type of value in all models so far. It should also be noted that Schumpeter 
(1909) said that the founders of the subjective concept of value (Jevons, Walras, 
Menger) never spoke of social, but only of individual value, because we only can 
measure product utility (value of use) individually. When a product promotes a 
change in attitude and behaviors (e.g., additive behaviors, healthier or ecological 
lifestyle, awareness of various types of discrimination, change of mentality, 
openness to new ideas, more knowledge or new acquired competences, self-
realization, sense of self-efficacy), then we are faced with an intrinsic psychological 
value to that person, and that may or may not have a social impact. 
On the basis of this theory, we develop a study to assess the perception of value 
in relation to the main groups of products. We used a questionnaire with a table 
where the respondents mark the types of value they considered to exist in each 
type of product. These groups follow the Portuguese distribution of goods and 
services (National Classification of Goods and Services – National Institute of 
Statistics), and we choose 20 types of products, being some of them made explicit: 
(1) food products, (2) tobacco, (3) clothing and footwear, (4) social reintegration 
services for ex-prisoners, (5) housing, (6) household appliances, (7) antibiotics, (8) 

 
 
anti-depressants and anxiolytics, (9) public transports, (10 mobile phone, (11) 
internet, (12) amusement park, (13) libraries and museums, (14) hotels, (15) 
schools, (16) cosmetic products, (17) foster care service for children at risk, (18) 
domiciliary support services for elderly, (19) disability support services, and (20) 
social cantina. 
They were used the following definitions to help the participants to assess the 
products: 
As economic value: “The ability of the product (good, service, idea, information, 
experience) to meet the human needs of the consumer for which it was designed, 
as well as to create financial or non-financial income for its producer or supplier.” 
As ecological value: “The ability of the product to contribute to the preservation of 
natural capital (environment, planet or biodiversity)”. 
As social value: “The ability of the product to have a positive impact on the 
community (social welfare, nutrition, shelter, health, social equity or quality of 
life”. 
As psychological value: “The ability of the product to influence or transform the 
lives, mentalities, knowledge, skills or behaviors of some consumers”. 
We have used a sample of 194 persons (52% female; aged between 18 and 54 
years old) to do this first exploratory research.  
The results show that different types of products are perceived to present 
different types of values depending on the subjective evaluation of the 
respondents as expected. It was clear that there are products with more impact 
on social level and other on psychological level with statistically significant 
differences. This exploratory study confirms that people are mainly concerned 
with the product value for themselves, based essentially in their own interest, 
showing that social value is not their fundamental criteria. Thus, scholars’ 
generalization about the way people assess product’s value, considering that the 
personal impact is a social issue, should be rethought at the light of tetrad-value 
theory. This approach presents a new taxonomy to classify the types of product 
value perceived by consumers based on four main pillars: economic, ecological, 
social and psychological. There are in the literature other taxonomies that 
somehow consider psychological aspects, such as emotions, affective, personal 

 
 
and holistic aspects (e.g., Babin, Darden, & Griffin, 1994; Hirschman & Holbrook, 
1982; Holbrook, 1994; Sheth, Newman, & Gross, 1991; Zeithaml, 1988). However, 
our approach considers that psychological value is related to the impacts on 
people’s life, transforming their behaviors in particular. Thus, our theoretical and 
practical contribution is related to the importance of considering psychological 
aspects as we have defined in products’ marketing processes (creation, 
distribution and communication), as well as in the creation of new sustainable 
business models. 
Keywords 
Tetrad-value theory, perception of value, psychological value, social value, 
distributed value. 
References 
Babin, B. J., Darden, W. R., & Griffin, M. (1994). Work and/or fun: Measuring 
hedonic and utilitarian shopping value. Journal of Consumer Research, 20, 
644–656. doi:10.1086/jcr.1994.20.issue-4 
Carvalho, J. M. S. & Sousa, C. A. A. (2015) Social entrepreneurship, sustainability, 
and tetrad-value theory. In: Book of Abstracts, WS-32-02, Global Cleaner 
Production and Sustainable Consumption Conference 2015. 1-4 November, 
Sitges, Spain. 
Carvalho, J. M. S., & Sousa, C. A. A. (2018). Is psychological value a missing building 
block 
to 
societal 
sustainability? 
Sustainability, 
10 
(12), 
4550. 
doi:10.3390/su10124550 
Elkington, J. (1997) Cannibals with Forks: The Triple Bottom Line of Twenty-First 
Century Business. Oxford, UK: Capstone Publishing. 
Hirschman, E. C., & Holbrook, M. B. (1982). Hedonic consumption: Emerging 
concepts, methods and propositions. Journal of Marketing, 46, 92–101. 
doi:10.2307/1251707 
Holbrook, M. B. (1994). The nature of customer value, an axiology of services in 
the consumption experience. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. 
Sheth, J. N., Newman, B. I., & Gross, B. L. (1991). Why we buy what we buy: A 
theory of consumption values. Journal of Business Research, 22, 159–170. 
doi:10.1016/0148-2963(91)90050-8 
Schumpeter, J. (1909) On the Concept of Social Value. The Quarterly Journal of 
Economics, 23 (2), 213-232. 

 
 
Zeithaml, V. A. (1988). Consumer perceptions of price, quality, and value: A means-
end model and synthesis of evidence. Journal of Marketing, 52, 2–22. 
doi:10.2307/1251446 
 

 
 
Sustainable Business Model 
Innovation and Acceptance of its 
Practices Among Spanish 
Entrepreneurs 
 
Alberto Peralta*, Javier Carrillo-Hermosilla, Fernando Crecente 
University of Alcalá, Spain 
 
*Alberto.Peralta@edu.UAH.es 
 
Abstract 
 
Sustainable business model innovation debate is mostly focusing on the use of 
certain practices and tools to implement sustainable objectives in new firms. Our 
paper contributes to this debate examining the factors influencing the 
entrepreneur’s election of the practices to develop sustainable business model 
innovation (SBMI). We conducted an empirical analysis on a population of Spanish 
entrepreneurs (N=234) and applied a sound behavioral framework and the PLS-
SEM algorithms to factor out those elements. Based on this analysis, we argue that 
Performance Expectancy, Effort Expectancy, Social Influence, Facilitating 
Conditions, Hedonic Motivation, Habit, Costs, Speed, Funding, Security and 
Behavioral Intention might affect the entrepreneurial acceptance of the practices 
leading to SBMI. We also argue that knowing about these factors benefit 
incubators, mentors and agencies balance them into their support to sustainable 
business development. Our analyses open a novel research line by studying those 
factors influencing entrepreneurial use of sustainable innovation practices and 
facilitating future development of full-scale models explaining this usage. 
Keywords 
eco-innovation, triple bottom line, factors, acceptance, sustainable business 
model, PLS-SEM 

 
 
Introduction 
New business modelling, or innovation of business models, is being a fruitful field 
for research (Wirtz, Göttel, & Daiser, 2016). However, scholarly studies on 
practices for business modelling are not that common (He, Miao, Wong, & Lee, 
2017). And to the best of our knowledge, research on the motivations and factors 
driving the acceptance of those business modelling practices by eco-
entrepreneurs is in its very early infancy (Exhibit 1 shows a summary of our 
approach to this research topic, as will be further explained below). To fill this gap, 
we firstly acknowledge the dynamic perspective of the development of business 
models (Cavalcante et al., 2011). Additionally, this perspective also argues the 
need for innovation of business models is recognized and acted upon by 
individuals (and maybe after a critical mass or success, by collectivities). Authors 
like Cavalcante and colleagues (2011: 1329) advocate for these individuals’ 
cognition, motivation and actions as the behavioral triggers of the dynamic 
venturing process (usually laid out as the pursuit of a vague idea or vision), and 
the methodologies and practices (even the mindsets) entrepreneurs, innovators 
and early employees use seem consequences of those triggers  
 
Exhibit 1. Summary of concepts included in our research on usage of SBMI 
practices. 

 
 
Out of the different entrepreneurial mindsets, the one advocating for more 
sustainable and environmentally-friendly business models is relevant for a 
broadening base of researchers. As a research line, these mindset studies have 
recently started and mostly concentrate on external factors (Hussain, Rigoni, & 
Cavezzali, 2018; Pipatprapa, Huang, & Huang, 2017) which configure the current 
definition of eco-innovation. But already there have been calls (Song & Yu 2018: 
136) for research on internal (organizational and individual) factors that explore 
how individual abilities help connect business model eco-innovation strategy with 
successful eco-innovation (Kiefer, del Río, & Carrillo-Hermosilla, 2018). Thus, 
secondly, this paper complements main-stream studies on external collective 
factors, investigating their balance with the business model internal collective and 
individual factors, and how they play a role in the selection of practices for 
successful eco-innovation. 
Thirdly, from an implementation and operations perspective, sustainable business 
model innovation (SBMI)26 strategy and the dimensions of its implementation 
(Kiefer, Carrillo-Hermosilla, Del Río, & Callealta, 2017) seem crucial for established 
and new firms in terms of survival, outperforming the competition or aiming at 
effects lasting longer than product or process innovations (Wirtz et al., 2016). One 
would think that given this relevance, SBMI implementation theoretical means 
would be many. But research and practice might be pointing to believe that 
alternatives to roll out any SBMI strategy into practice seem to follow either a 
linear sequence (Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013) or a non-linear development 
(Steve Blank, 2013; York, Jonathan L; Danes, 2014). And this polarization is giving 
way to a rising debate among scholars which is being enriched by its different 
perspectives (see for example, Hansen, Wicki, & Schaltegger, 2018; Kiefer, Carrillo-
Hermosilla, & del Río, 2018; Lüdeke-Freund, Carroux, Joyce, Massa, & Breuer, 
2018; Tiemann, Breuer, Fichter, & Lüdeke Freund, 2018). The debate currently 
concentrates on the practices and tools for SBMI development or implementation. 
But we ask, how entrepreneurs decide between a linear or a non-linear SBMI 
process? And which factors affect this entrepreneurs’ selection of design and 
implementation practices to use for SBMI? Our answers to these research 
questions aim to shed light on one of the potential causes of the success of a 
sustainable new business model (SBM): the reasons why entrepreneurs choose 
certain practices for SBMI development before others. We theorize these motives 
(internal and external) drive the selection and use of SBMI practices, and this 
                                                 
26 Carrillo-Hermosilla and colleagues (2010) listed many definitions of the term eco-innovation. In 
this paper, we take on that definition that focuses in the eco-innovation of business models, rather 
than products or services, in what other authors call sustainable business model innovation (see 
(Geissdoerfer, Vladimirova, & Evans, 2018: 406) 

 
 
usage might lead to overperformance and success of new SBMs. Also, different 
key stakeholders involved in the development of SBMI (mentors, government 
agencies, incubators or investors) might use our answers to better tailor their 
support programs, balancing those factors and causes.  
Such analyses of the underlying factors motivating the usage of one method or 
practice are not rare in business research (Venkatesh, et al., 2003; Venkatesh, et 
al., 2012; Lima & Baudier, 2017). They not only consider external and collective 
factors, but also internal and individual variables. Along this line, Venkatesh and 
colleagues (2003) introduced the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of 
Technology (UTAUT) scales explaining a user’s behavior from her intention to use 
a technology, tool, or practice by putting up a summarized model of psychological 
and sociological theories (Venkatesh et al., 2003: 427-437). Like the original 
UTAUT, the rationale behind our framework is: a SBMI practice, together with 
other internal and external factors, generate a cognitive and emotional reaction 
in the entrepreneur that results in the actual use of that method or practice, in an 
endless, self-reinforcing cycle (Venkatesh et al., 2003: 427). Using UTAUT scales, 
we aim to answer our research questions building eleven factors27 (endogenous 
constructs) affecting the entrepreneur’s use of different practices or methods to 
innovate business models to achieve economic, social and environmental goals. 
Complementarily, we order these factors according to the strength of their 
relationship with their determinants. Finally, our research helps to identify which 
stakeholders seem relevant and influence that entrepreneurial behavior.  
To accomplish our aims, we have performed factor analyses using the PLS-SEM 
algorithms on a sample (N=234) of experienced Spanish entrepreneurs. We have 
opened a novel way of analyzing the ecological, social and economic effects when 
eco-innovating business models, that not only considers reflective but also 
formative relationships among behavioral and non-behavioral latent constructs 
and their exogenous predictors. We have explored not only static factors (e.g. 
performance, cost, security) but also others that could reflect the dynamism of 
SBMI (e.g. hedonic motivation, speed, social influence). 
The rest of this summary paper is organized in a literature review, describing the 
main SBMI literature as well as a revision of the constructs we have identified 
                                                 
27 The eleven constructs are: Intention to use, performance expectancy, effort expectancy, social 
influence, facilitating conditions, hedonic motivation, price/cost and habit (Venkatesh et al., 2012: 
158) and speed, funding and security. 

 
 
affecting the usage of SBMI practices. Thirdly, we conclude with a brief discussion 
on our findings, their implications and limitations. 
Literature background 
Methods to eco-innovate business models 
Although the literature on SBMI is vividly expanding, there is a certain divergence 
of conceptualizations and lack of commonalities in its many references. For 
purposes of this paper, we have reviewed the extant literature on SBMI 
technologies, practices and methods, and extracted the conceptual implications 
that helped us identify the behavioral and external constructs of an entrepreneur’s 
acceptance of practices and methods to define and implement ventures aiming at 
triple bottom line goals. In this paper, we interchangeably use eco-innovation and 
sustainable innovation (Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013: 11). 
We agree with Carrillo-Hermosilla and colleagues (2010) that eco-innovation aims 
to “reduce the environmental impact caused by consumption and production 
activities”. But we also argue that this specific goal should extend beyond technical 
and process innovation to include the development of new SBMs which, for 
instance, is identified as a basis to “diffuse large scaled environmental technology 
systems” (Kanda, Sakao, & Hjelm, 2016).28 It is on this SMB eco-innovation concept 
that we concentrate on in this paper. Not only due to its potential to expand the 
traditional economic performance criteria to include environmental and social 
metrics (OECD, 2012; Boons et al., 2013; Bergset & Fichter, 2015: 124), but more 
importantly, because it can consider the dynamic relationships between business, 
society and nature (Marcus et al. (2010).  
Despite differences on the purposes driving entrepreneurs (Bergset & Fichter, 
2015), sustainable entrepreneurs’ main concern seems precisely the successful 
performance (along the triple bottom line: Stubbs & Cocklin, 2008) and 
competitiveness of their SBMs. SBMs performance and competitiveness is then 
measured by the value they provide to conventional stakeholders (shareholders, 
customers), but also to the environment (internal and external to the business 
model), and society (internal and external individuals and groups to the firm’s 
organization) (Bocken et al, 2013). More specifically, a SBM’s performance and 
competitiveness could depend over time on specific salient stakeholders and lead 
                                                 
28 For Kanda and colleagues (2016) these new SBMs should include six non-technical components 
(market, finance, resources, activities, partnership and ownership) which complement the 
technical elements for sustainable development  

 
 
users, that we denominate as valueholders (Peralta, Carrillo-Hermosilla, & 
Crecente, 2018). 
In the context of the broader SBMI concept, there also seem to be a clear 
sustainability vision: when companies and start-up firms build business models 
‘for’ (voluntary), or ‘of’ (as a reaction to regulations) sustainability, they also 
integrate in them the effects of the society and/or the natural environment. They 
reinforce their regular innovation activities aiming at improved economics 
(Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund & Hansen, 2012).  
But it is in the how that concern and vision get implemented where things 
apparently get confusing. The two methodologies or sets of practices mostly used 
by entrepreneurs to implement new SBMs, namely the New Product 
Development(NPD process) and Lean Startup  (LS) (see Table 1), are well described 
in their respective stages, challenges, activities and tools (Steve Blank & Dorf, 
2012; Geissdoerfer, Savaget, & Evans, 2017). But beyond certain commonalities, 
like experimentation and learning from experience  (Wirtz et al., 2016: 15), 
confusion builds up when they refer to, for example, learning from mistakes, 
failures and tests (Wirtz et al., 2016)29.  
The product development process (Steve Blank, 2009) 
With this term Blank referred to the traditional, stage-gate, incremental way of 
executing a SBMI strategy (called also new product development, NPD: York, 
Jonathan L; Danes, 2014)). In this case, the activities (technologies: Harms, Marinakis, 
& Walsh, 2015: 5) aiming at developing new business models for sustainable value 
traditionally follow a process similar to this: Idea, concept design, development, 
launch, post-sale. Sustainable new ventures following this NPD process commonly 
depart from the enhancement of the existing value propositions, and/or the efforts 
aimed at complementing the existing value propositions with new ideas (Carrillo-
Hermosilla, Del Río and Könnölä, 2010; Geissdoerfer and Jan Hultink, 2016). Those 
activities and technologies have been mapped, for example, by Geissdoerfer et al. 
(2016) in a series of phases combining into a comprehensive process named the 
                                                 
29 Most probably, this confusion has made the literature on how to develop a SBM concentrate on 
stating the elements (inter-organizational networks, societal systems, stakeholders, value 
proposition, supply chain, customer interface, tools or financial models: Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 
2013: 13, Stubbs & Cocklin, 2008) needed for designing and implementing SBMs. Few authors 
describe the methods and practices (Geissdoerfer et al., 2017; Henriksen et al., 2012; Tiemann et 
al., 2018) that entrepreneurs can use to overcome the ‘design-implementation gap’ (Geissdoerfer, 
et al., 2017) and accomplish their SBM business goals. In this paper we reference the New Product 
Development (NPD) or conventional stage-gate process and the Lean Startup (Steve Blank, 2013; 
Eisenmann et al., 2011) as theoretical methods or practices suitable for SBMI and to bridge the 
design-implementation gap (Weissbrod & Bocken, 2016). See Table 1. 

 
 
Cambridge Business Model Innovation Process. Commonly, this NPD process uses 
methods and technologies associated to the Business Plan or any of its sub-plans: 
Marketing, Financial, Operations, and to ideation tools like Design Thinking. 
Lean startup (LS) or Lean Innovation 
LS is seldom considered a SBMI methodology although since its inception (Ries, 2011) 
it integrated new business modelling with the consideration of all stakeholders to 
develop sustainable, growing business models (Eisenmann, Ries, & Dillard, 2011). 
Considering it as a business model eco-innovation method (Peralta et al., 2018), it 
combines Blank’s (2006) customer development process, agile software 
experimentation (Dybå and Dingsøyr, 2008, Brown, 2008), and business model design 
(Osterwalder, 2004). LS approaches the creation of business models considering all 
the relevant stakeholders since the inception of the idea, and not as one of the final 
steps of the development of that business idea, when the idea is rounded up in a 
value proposition and ready to be launched (marketed or commercialized). 
Using neither the NPD, nor LS processes 
Although not specifically described anywhere to the best of our knowledge, many 
entrepreneurs, due to lack of knowledge, tools, time or out of a need for 
simplification, prefer to “fly without instruments”, as one of our expert entrepreneurs 
put it. Most of the ‘agnostic’ entrepreneurs usually depart from any form of basic 
business planning, to then falling into frequent rounds of experiments, similar to 
those proposed by LS. 
Table 1. SBMI practices as methodologies available in the literature on eco-
innovation. 
Our overall research context is then one of individuals and firms looking for 
practices and methodologies to develop and implement sustainable strategies 
(Song & Yu, 2018). In this context, environmental and social factors inhibit or 
support economic performance of firms and startups, probably in dynamic cycles, 
and externally and internally affect their structures, development, and their 
sustainable strategies. Research on those factors address the organizational 
capabilities for eco-innovation (Kiefer et al., 2018) and their relationship with 
competitive advantages or financial performance (Song & Yu, 2018: 136) or with 
the tools needed to cope with those factors (Tiemann et al., 2018). Ours is a paper 
willing to satisfy a growing demand for research beyond these organizational 
capabilities focusing on individual skills, abilities and traits. We contribute to clarify 
how entrepreneurs can successfully develop competitive SBMs (Stubbs & Cocklin, 
2008) from the factors that affect the entrepreneur´s individual behavior. 

 
 
The design and implementation of SBMs by eco-entrepreneurs are guided by their 
acceptance of those SBMI tools, practices and complex methods, similarly to what 
Lima & Baudier (2017) described. This behavioral approach to design and 
implementing an innovative SBM analyzes the individual traits influencing that 
acceptance. In this paper, we study these individual traits and factors, as they did, 
using the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT: Venkatesh 
et al., 2003). 
UTAUT in the context of business model eco-innovation practices 
The UTAUT and UTAUT2 models are two widely accepted syntheses of information 
technology (computer technology) acceptance for users and consumers 
(Venkatesh et al., 2012). We have selected this framework as it has been 
developed out of a review and synthesis of eight prominent models explaining the 
users’ acceptance of technology30 and given its stronger explanatory power. 
Originally, these two models addressed the theoretical relationship between 
technology use31 and the mechanisms that drive this use (what the authors called 
‘behavioral intention’). The UTAUT model, focusing on technology users, 
referenced “four key constructs (i.e., performance expectancy, effort expectancy, 
social influence, and facilitating conditions) that influence behavioral intention to 
use a technology and/or technology use” (Venkatesh et al., 2012: 159). UTAUT2, 
a later development  (Venkatesh et al., 2012), focused on technology consumers 
and included in the model a set of three new constructs (i.e., hedonic motivation, 
costs/price, and habit: Venkatesh et al., 2012: 160). This adaptation was needed 
to address the specific context of consumer technology use. 
To extend the validity of these models, as well as expanding them to other 
expressions of technology (beyond IT), Venkatesh and his colleagues demanded 
“careful theoretical consideration to the context being studied” to advance and 
complement with new constructs the “scope and generalizability of UTAUT” 
                                                 
30 The UTAUT framework outperforms the earlier theoretical models with an adjusted R2 of 69 
percent, exceeding the adjusted R2 (40 percent) of the list of earlier prominent theoretical models 
that UTAUT is based on (see Venkatesh et al., 2003:Table 1 for the list of models included) 
31 Technology is here understood in the classical concept of “the application of scientific knowledge 
to the practical aims of human life or, as it is sometimes phrased, to the change and manipulation 
of the human environment.” (Enciclopaedia Britannica, November 2018). Alternatively: “1a. the 
practical application of knowledge especially in a particular area; 1b: a capability given by the 
practical application of knowledge; 2.: a manner of accomplishing a task especially using technical 
processes, methods, or knowledge; 3.: the specialized aspects of a particular field of endeavor” 
(Merrian Webster, November 2018). Consequently, although ‘technology’ is often regarded as 
apps or hardware, it is also including practices, methods, skills, or knowledge, used to accomplish 
any objective. 

 
 
(Venkatesh et al., 2012: 160). More specifically, Venkatesh et al., 2012: 158) 
demanded (1) identifying new constructs and (2) altering the original relationships 
in UTAUT32. 
UTAUT-SBMI 
Following (see also Exhibit 2) is a review of how the original UTAUT concepts are 
addressed in the context of SBMI for entrepreneurial initiatives.  
Behavioral intention (BI) and Usage (US) 
Following the original contribution of the UTAUT model in terms of the 
relationship between an individual’s intention to use a method or technology and 
the dependent final usage (Venkatesh et al., 2003: 427), our contribution is to 
explain how a founder’s intention to use a particular method (practice or 
technology) to develop a SBM drives her actual use of that method.   
The methodological options to use for developing new sustainable ventures that 
we have considered in our research are NPD, LS and ‘neither NPD nor LS’ (see Table 
1). 
Performance expectancy (PE) 
“Performance expectancy (PE) is defined as the degree to which an individual 
believes that using the system will help him or her to attain gains in job 
performance” (Venkatesh et al., 2003: 447). In our context, the five constructs 
summarized under performance expectancy in the original UTAUT ((ibid: 447): 
perceived usefulness (triple bottom line goals), extrinsic motivation (e.g., building 
business models ‘for’ or ‘of’ sustainability) , job-fit (e.g. individual-skills based 
jobs), relative advantage (e.g., improved economics thanks to reduced 
environmental and social costs), and outcome expectations (e.g., “reduce the 
environmental impact caused by consumption and production activities”) are 
referring to the entrepreneur’s expectations to successfully eco-innovate a 
business model. 
                                                 
32 Venkatesh and colleagues included a third requirement (“introducing new relationships”) to 
extend the validity of the original model into other fields. This paper is an introduction of the 
factors intervening in the next UTAUT-SBMI, and we concentrate on the first two requirements 
which specifically relate to them. A later paper will also address the third requirement to describe 
and validate the acceptance of SBMI practices full-scale model. 

 
 
Effort expectancy (EE) 
“Effort expectancy is defined as the degree of ease associated with the use of the 
system” (Venkatesh et al., 2003: 450). This construct is formed of three 
determinants: “perceived ease of use, complexity, and ease of use” (ibid: 450). In 
the context of SBMI, SBMI processes and practices help clarify a complex and often 
ambiguous design-implementation gap (Geissdoerfer, Savaget, & Evans, 2016). 
We theorize that their improved view of that gap may be one of the reasons 
behind their acceptance by eco-entrepreneurs. 
The Effort Expectancy construct captures then the feeling and experience of 
seasoned entrepreneurs about SBMI complexity, for both linear and multilinear 
methods. The NPD process adopts a linear design and implementation based on 
its causal and managerial approach (Makridakis, Hogarth, & Gaba, 2010; 
Sarasvathy, 2001). Problems may arise if the cumulative knowledge gained during 
its initial phases does not fit with the market or with the valueholders that should 
eventually support the SBM growth. LS multilinear implementation combines 
causality with effectuality (Frederiksen & Brem, 2017; Sarasvathy, 2001), and its 
implementation is cyclical and adaptive, with continuous pivots, iterations and 
development of ephemeral support business models: Bajwa, Wang, Nguyen Duc, 
& Abrahamsson, 2017; McGrath, 2010) as the new business model integrates the 
needs and support of valueholders, which seldomly is a linear, straight process.  
Social influence (SI) 
“Social influence is defined as the degree to which an individual perceives that 
important others believe he or she should use the new system” (Venkatesh et al., 
2003: 451). In this case, the three constructs representing Social Influence in 
UTAUT are “subjective norm, social factors, and image” (ibid: 451). Given the 
sustainable entrepreneurial context of our research, we have included those 
constructs as part of the selection criteria we have used to identify a list of 
nineteen stakeholder groups, with potential to influence the entrepreneur’s 
behavior. To make up this list, we have integrated the work of Steve Blank and 
Dorf (2012), Hart and Sharma (2004), Peralta and colleagues (2018) and Von 
Hippel (1986), together with other grey sources and the experience of the authors. 
From a SBMI perspective, this Social Influence construct seems to reflect more 
intensely than the rest of our factors the dynamism of sustainable 
entrepreneurism. More specifically, stakeholders, and the influence they have 
over a new venture, are dynamic and temporal. And the valueholder concept 
captures that dynamism and erratic, sometimes unforeseen, influence on the 

 
 
performance and growth of SBMs. Out of our stakeholders list and considering the 
static and geographically local nature of our current research, SI can shed some 
light on the conceptual work of Steve Blank & Dorf (2012), Hart & Sharma (2004), 
Mitchell, Wood, & Agle (1997) and Von Hippel (1986), detecting who the 
significant stakeholders (valueholders) are, if any, for our sample of 
entrepreneurs. 
Facilitating conditions (FC) 
“Facilitating conditions are defined as the degree to which an individual believes 
that an organizational and technical infrastructure exists to support use of the 
system” (Venkatesh et al., 2003: 453). Three determinants build facilitating 
conditions: 
“perceived 
behavioral 
control, 
facilitating 
conditions, 
and 
compatibility” (ibid: 453).  
Hedonic motivation (HM) 
“Hedonic motivation is defined as the fun or pleasure derived from using a 
technology” (Venkatesh et al., 2012: 161). This construct relates to the “perceived 
enjoyment” of the entrepreneur in using a method or technology to ease her 
development of a new sustainable venture. And complements the earlier 
(extrinsic) constructs from motivation theory as it is an intrinsic construct.  
Costs/price (CO) 
Following the concerns expressed by Venkatesh and colleagues (2012: 161), 
entrepreneurs, particularly those included in our research, bear the cost and 
economic burden of the SBMI process, whether because they are the first 
investors or because they need to seek for the initial funds to start the process 
(Karadag, 2015). This search for funds along the stages of development of the new 
business model is to become a constant, as the new venture develops its 
sustainable business model(s) (Blank, 2014). And this driver certainly affects the 
individual’s intention and behavior of the method to use. The theoretical 
constructs affecting costs are the pricing of the applications to effectively use each 
method or tool, the costs associated to collaboration of the founding team using 
the same SBMI method and the costs associated to fulfilling the requirements of 
each method’s stages. 
Habit (HT) 
“Habit is viewed as prior behavior; and second, habit is measured as the extent to 
which an individual believes the behavior to be automatic” (Venkatesh et al., 2012: 
161). To this extent, prior experiences are a predictor of habit as they form beliefs 

 
 
and influence behavior. In our context, habit is also a perceptual construct, 
intrinsic to the individual.  
New constructs in UTAUT-SBMI 
By (1) adding new constructs, and (2) altering the original relationships in UTAUT 
Venkatesh and his colleagues extended their original model into UTAUT2 
(Venkatesh et al., 2012: 158). Similarly, we have tailored further the UTAUT and 
UTAUT2 framework to our population of users (i.e. experienced entrepreneurs). 
We have expanded those constructs (1) identifying three new key conceptual 
constructs (speed, funding and security), and (2) altered some of the original 
relationships, hypothesizing new influences between the constructs and their 
determinants, in line with our sustainable context. 
Speed (SP) 33 
Speed is defined as “fast, fearless decision-making, cycle time, speed and tempo” 
(Steve Blank & Dorf, 2012). This new construct into the UTAUT model does not 
captures extrinsic determinants (market velocity, technology changes, regulations 
updates) as they might be better addressed by other constructs (FC and SI). It is 
best described as a collection of intrinsic predictors: adaptation and improvisation 
(together with execution) (Duxbury, 2014: 22), commitment (“passion and drive”: 
Jain, 2011; Sai Manohar & Pandit, 2013), tempo (Blank & Dorf, 2012) and timely 
knowledge creation for decision making (Nonaka, Toyama and Konno, 2000: 14). 
This construct might help to cope with situations of no-references, time-scarcity, 
and complex developments, where multiple and simoultaneous paths require 
different degrees of attention. For some authors, tt is the velocity (or the lack of 
it) in testing core business facts that is associated to failure of new businesses 
(Bertels, Koen, & Elsum, 2015; Nonaka et al., 2000).  
Funding (FU) 
Funding is defined as the need for money to start and scale any venture, whether  
it is for product development or any other “liquidity events” (Blank, 2016). This is 
formed out of three constructs: financial strategic management (Karadag, 2015; 
López, Contreras & Espinosa, 2012), competitiveness and control (López, 
Contreras & Espinosa, 2012) and growth/scaling (Picken, 2017; Powell & Bitner, 
1992). It is academically well grounded that survival and performance of startups 
and new business models is tied to the presence of financial management 
                                                 
33 The exogenous indicators for these new endogenous constructs and for the rest of the constructs 
are available from the authors upon request. 

 
 
(Karadag, 2015) which affects the founders’ ability to earn credibility and 
legitimacy, but also to building a supportive culture, and have everyone involved 
in addressing risk and uncertainty (Picken, 2017).  
Funding of a new SBM might also be related to higher competitiveness (López, 
Contreras & Espinosa, 2012: 94), and tools and metrics to control it. Being 
competitive and in control of the new venture usually means an alignment of 
financial and overall strategies, which usually is reflected in higher funding and 
easier exits (therefore, better chances to grow to further investment rounds). 
Repetition and scalability are also predictors of our funding construct, as they are 
signs of successful development of an effective new business model and 
organization (Powell & Bitner, 1992). When it exists, this growth ability of new 
SBMs might complement and expand their credibility and positively affect their 
funding. 
Security (SE) 
Security is defined here as the probabilistic prediction of economic uncertainty 
that affects decision making of individuals (Makridakis et al., 2010). We see it as 
intrinsic to the individual. Our construct is best described by these predictors: 
knowledge creation (Nonaka, Toyama and Konno, 2000), revision of goals and 
actions (type of mindset: Sarasvathy, 2001; Ye, 2016) and heuristics (Ye, 2016: 
404). Knowledge is created by the spiral interactions between explicit and tacit 
knowledges (Ye, 2016: 7-9) and affect how individuals predict their future and, 
therefore their security (usually expressed economically). 
The cyclical building of knowledge departs from a revision of losses, failed alliances 
and contingencies (or opportunities). It leads to a revision of goals and actions that 
defines how an individual faces the future and uncertainty (predicting them or 
controlling them), which differentiates a managerial mindset from a more 
entrepreneurial one (Sarasvathy, 2001; Ye, 2016). Managers, whose judgements 
are based on probability and advocate for planning and probabilistic predictions 
of uncertainty (Makridakis, Hogarth and Gaba, 2010: 87), and entrepreneurs, that 
aim at controlling uncertainty, minimizing the need for prediction, are subject to 
rationality coupled with intuition. The differences are in that they use different 
heuristics (Ye, 2016: 404) or use the same heuristics differently. These available 
heuristics for SBMI are the two different approaches to SBM modelling we 
described earlier, which help decision makers to cope with uncertainty and gain 
security (for them, their developments and teams).  

 
 
Brief discussion and conclusions 
From our research questions inquiring how entrepreneurs decided which SBMI 
practice to use and which factors affected this choice, we hypothesized (1) those 
factors depend on dynamic external and internal conditions; (2) entrepreneurs 
tend to use the methods and practices they know, require the least effort, help 
them get funded and provide them with the most fun; and (3) only certain 
valueholders seem actual influencers of the SBM development.  
First, our paper provides empirical support to the factors we theorized are 
influencing the acceptance of entrepreneurs of SBMI practices to design and 
implement their SBMs. We have identified, described and empirically supported 
behavioral structures (composites and factors) that influence the usage of any of 
the SBMI methods or practices commonly available for business modelling. Based 
on extant behavioral models of acceptance of technology and business practices, 
we have developed a strong framework of eleven factors, combining academically 
grounded concepts (intention, performance expectancy, effort expectancy, social 
influence, facilitating conditions, hedonic motivation, costs/price, habit) and three 
new constructs (i.e., speed, funding, security), derived from the relevant literature 
on SBMI. We have also supported the modes of relationship of those factors, 
which in some cases differ from the conventional reflective mode and include 
formative modes. Complementarily, we have successfully captured missing latent 
elements contributing to clarify how entrepreneurs build SBMs. 
Second, these factors are constructed using external and internal influences and 
include collective and individual determinants. In doing so, we have contributed 
to advance the research on the individuals’ relevance when creating SBMs. Our 
stronger constructs, built with those considerations in mind, Effort Expectancy 
(i.e., the easiness of use, or “actionability”, of the SBMI method) and Hedonic 
Motivation (i.e., the enjoyment and learning the SBMI method produces) partially 
support our second hypothesis. These two constructs and Behavioral Intention, 
which also shows unexpected strength, shed light on which could be the relevant 
constructs to be taken into account when entrepreneurs select a SBMI practice. 
As a first approach to knowing what drives the entrepreneurial use of SBMI 
practices, our paper provides support to the underexplored field of 
implementation practices of eco-innovation at the strategic, operational and 
tactical levels. This is particularly relevant when starting up a firm, as the 
entrepreneurial team faces uncertainty when implementing their plans in any of 
those three levels. Having a sound SBMI strategy is deemed as a required 
component for success (Amit & Zott, 2012; Baldassarre, Calabretta, Bocken, & 

 
 
Jaskiewicz, 2017; Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013; Evans et al., 2017; Klewitz & 
Hansen, 2014) and we argue that knowing which factors drive the acceptance of a 
design and implementation method can additionally strengthen any strategy 
development, most particularly eco-innovation strategies. This might be relevant 
for entrepreneurs, incubators, accelerators, mentors and academic institutions 
devoted to teaching entrepreneurship, as they present concrete areas needing 
special attention. For example, making one particular SBMI practice more 
actionable than other lures entrepreneurs to it, independent of its efficacy. And 
the same happens with those practices that are more enjoyable, whether they are 
properly fitted for successful SBM development. Our findings complement those 
of Kanda and colleagues (2018), suggesting a clear bias of the roles they identified 
of support agents towards balancing all constructs in their activities with 
entrepreneurs. This might mean that an incubator should probably build on the 
actionability and enjoyment of a particular SBMI practice to introduce other 
relevant aspects like Security, easier access to Funding, Speed and the rest of our 
eleven constructs and rightly balanced them in their incubated projects. 
Finally, we also contribute to the current sustainable business modelling and 
stakeholder discussions by identifying groups of valueholders that may be more 
salient or more influential for seasoned entrepreneurs. Partially different from 
those proposed by our theory (Mitchell, Wood, & Agle, 1997), our significative 
valueholder groups are potential customers, investors, employees of the current 
SBMI project and teachers/instructors. National/regional government also 
appeared as meaningful, but their negative loading seems to reflect a lack of 
understanding/negative effect of these institutions on eco-entrepreneurs. 
Limitations and future research 
The main limitation of the current research is its static, frozen-picture-like view of 
the elements or structures (constructs) that influence the entrepreneurs’ use of 
one SBMI practice. Other similar studies (Lima & Baudier, 2017; Venkatesh et al., 
2003, 2012) have shared the same concern. Usage of a SBMI practice, in a very 
complex environment as the creation of SBMs, is never static. It changes with time, 
experience and failure (Blank, 2010; Eisenmann et al., 2011). Our exploratory 
research is, to the best of our knowledge, the first of its kind, acknowledging not 
only external influences, but also entrepreneurs internal composite-constructs. Its 
purpose is to explore SBMI design and implementation from the individual (Felin 
& Foss, 2005; Song & Yu, 2018). But it lacks the ‘time’, ‘learning’, and ‘valueholder’ 
effects, considered dynamically. This might be a novel and promising line of 

 
 
research, starting from our factors and investigating their evolution with each 
stage of the SBMs development towards growth and success. 
Another limitation is the localization of our sample. Future research on the 
acceptance of SBMI practices following the path we just opened could provide a 
wider perspective of this research, including samples from other countries and 
adding other characteristics (i.e., corporate vs. non-corporate entrepreneurs, 
Western vs. Asian countries, eco-countries vs. non-eco-countries). 
A final concern is the relationship of the factors and the actual usage of a SBMI 
practice. Due to space limitations, we were not able to present here these 
relationships in a model that fits those elements into a sound SBMI practice 
acceptance theoretical model. Furthering into that line, strengthening the current 
relationships of the factors and uncovering new relationships among the factors 
are two wide and needed new research fields. 
References 
Amit, R., & Zott, C. (2012). Creating Value Through Business Model Innovation. MIT 
Sloan 
Management 
Review, 
53(53310), 
41–49. 
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1701660 
Bajwa, S. S., Wang, X., Nguyen Duc, A., & Abrahamsson, P. (2017). “Failures” to be 
celebrated: an analysis of major pivots of software startups. Empirical 
Software Engineering, 22(5), 2373–2408. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10664-
016-9458-0 
Baldassarre, B., Calabretta, G., Bocken, N. M. P., & Jaskiewicz, T. (2017). Bridging 
sustainable business model innovation and user-driven innovation: A 
process for sustainable value proposition design. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 147, 175–186. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.01.081 
Bergset, L., & Fichter, K. (2015). Green start-ups – a new typology for sustainable 
entrepreneurship and innovation research. Journal of Innovation 
Management, 3(3), 118–144. 
Bertels, H. M., Koen, P. a, & Elsum, I. (2015). Business Models Outside the Core: 
Lessons Learned from Success and Failure. Research-Technology 
Management, 58(2), 20–29. https://doi.org/10.5437/08956308X5802294 
Blank, S. (2006). The Four Steps to the Epiphany: Successful Strategies for Products 
that Win (2nd ed.). 

 
 
Blank, S. (2009). The leading cause of startup death – part 1: The product 
development 
diagram. 
Retrieved 
from 
https://steveblank.com/2009/08/27/the-leading-cause-of-startup-death-
the-product-development-diagram/ 
Blank, S. (2010). Why Startups are Agile and Opportunistic – Pivoting the Business 
Model. Retrieved from https://steveblank.com/2010/04/12/why-startups-
are-agile-and-opportunistic-–-pivoting-the-business-model/ 
Blank, S. (2013). Why the lean start-up changes everything. Harvard Business 
Review, (91), 64–72. 
Blank, S. (2014). Is this startup ready for investment? 
Blank, S. (2016). What founders need to know: You were funded for a liquidity 
event 
- 
Start 
looking. 
Retrieved 
from 
https://steveblank.com/2016/03/16/what-founders-need-to-know-you-
were-funded-for-a-liquidity-event-start-looking/ 
Blank, S., & Dorf, B. (2012). The startup owner’s manual: The step-by-step guide 
for building a great company. Pescadero, California: K&S Ranch. 
Boons, F., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013). Business models for sustainable innovation: 
State-of-the-art and steps towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 45, 9–19. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2012.07.007 
Boons, F., Montalvo, C., Quist, J., & Wagner, M. (2013). Sustainable innovation, 
business models and economic performance: An overview. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 45, 1–8. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2012.08.013 
Carrillo-Hermosilla, J., Del Río, P., & Könnölä, T. (2010). Diversity of eco-
innovations: Reflections from selected case studies. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 
18(10–11), 
1073–1083. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2010.02.014 
Cavalcante, S., Kesting, P., & Ulhøi, J. (2011). Business model dynamics and 
innovation: (re)establishing the missing linkages. Management Decision, 
49(8), 1327–1342. https://doi.org/10.1108/00251741111163142 
Duxbury, T. (2014). Improvising Entrepreneurship. Technology Innovation 
Management Review, 4(7), 22–26. 
Eisenmann, T., Ries, E., & Dillard, S. (2011). Hypothesis-Driven Entrepreneurship: 
The Lean Startup. Harvard Business School Background Note 812-095, 
44(December), 1–23. 
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Van Fossen, K., Yang, M., Silva, E. A., & 
Barlow, C. Y. (2017). Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards 
a Unified Perspective for Creation of Sustainable Business Models. Business 
Strategy 
and 
the 
Environment, 
26(5), 
597–608. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.1939 

 
 
Felin, T., & Foss, N. J. (2005). Strategic organization: A field in search of micro-
foundations. 
Strategic 
Organization, 
3(4), 
441–455. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1476127005055796 
Frederiksen, D. L., & Brem, A. (2017). How do entrepreneurs think they create 
value? A scientific reflection of Eric Ries’ Lean Startup approach. 
International Entrepreneurship and Management Journal, 13(1), 169–189. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11365-016-0411-x 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., & Evans, S. (2016). The Cambridge Business Model 
Innovation 
Process. 
In 
14th 
Global 
Conference 
on 
Sustainable 
Manufacturing. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., & Evans, S. (2017). The Cambridge Business Model 
Innovation Process. In Seliger, G and Kohl, H and Oosthuizen, GA (Ed.), 14TH 
GLOBAL CONFERENCE ON SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING, GCSM 2016 
(Vol. 8, pp. 262–269). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.promfg.2017.02.033 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D., & Evans, S. (2018). Sustainable business model 
innovation: A review. Journal of Cleaner Production, 198, 401–416. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.240 
Hansen, E., Wicki, S., & Schaltegger, S. (2018). Structural ambidexterity, transition 
processes and integration trade-offs: a longitudinal study of failed 
exploration. R&D Management. 
Harms, R., Marinakis, Y., & Walsh, S. T. (2015). Lean startup for materials ventures 
and other science-based ventures: under what conditions is it useful? 
Translational Materials Research, 2(3). https://doi.org/10.1088/2053-
1613/2/3/035001 
He, F., Miao, X., Wong, C. W. Y., & Lee, S. (2017). Contemporary corporate eco-
innovation research: a systematic review. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
174, 502–526. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.10.314 
Henriksen, A. K., Bjerre, M., Grann, E. D., Lindahl, M., Friðriksson, K., Mühlbradt, 
T., & Sand, H. (2012). Green Business Model Innovation : Business Case 
Study Compendium, (October). 
Hussain, N., Rigoni, U., & Cavezzali, E. (2018). Does it pay to be really good? 
Looking inside the black box of the relationship between sustainability 
performance and financial performance. Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Environmental 
Management, 
(November 
2017). 
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1631 
Jain, R. K. (2011). Entrepreneurial Competencies: A Meta-analysis and 
Comprehensive Conceptualization for Future Research. Vision: The Journal 
of 
Business 
Perspective, 
15(2), 
127–152. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/097226291101500205 

 
 
Kanda, W., Hjelm, O., Clausen, J., & Bienkowska, D. (2018). Roles of intermediaries 
in supporting eco-innovation. Journal of Cleaner Production, 205, 1006–
1016. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.09.132 
Kanda, W., Sakao, T., & Hjelm, O. (2016). Components of business concepts for the 
diffusion of large scaled environmental technology systems. Journal of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
128, 
156–167. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.10.040 
Karadag, H. (2015). Financial Management Challenges In Small And Medium-Sized 
Enterprises: A Strategic Management Approach. EMAJ: Emerging Markets 
Journal, 5(1), 26–40. https://doi.org/10.5195/EMAJ.2015.67 
Kiefer, C., Carrillo-Hermosilla, J., Del Río, P., & Callealta, J. (2017). Diversity of eco-
innovations: a quantitative approach. Journal of Cleaner Production, (166), 
1494–1506. 
Kiefer, C., del Río, P., & Carrillo-Hermosilla, J. (2018). Drivers and barriers of eco-
innovation types for sustainable transitions. A quantitative perspective. 
Business 
Strategy 
and 
the 
Environment, 
1–38. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/adsc.201 
Klewitz, J., & Hansen, E. G. (2014). Sustainability-oriented innovation of SMEs: a 
systematic 
review. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
65, 
57–75. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.07.017 
Lima, M., & Baudier, P. (2017). Business Model Canvas Acceptance among French 
Entrepreneurship Students: Principles for Enhancing Innovation Artefacts in 
Business Education. Journal of Innovation Economics, 23(2), 159. 
https://doi.org/10.3917/jie.pr1.0008 
López, A., Contreras, R., & Espinosa, R. (2012). The Impact of Financial Decisions 
and Strategy on Small Business Competitiveness. Global Journal of Business 
Research, 6(2), 93–104. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L., & Breuer, H. (2018). The 
sustainable business model pattern taxonomy—45 patterns to support 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable Production 
and Consumption, 15, 145–162. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2018.06.004 
Makridakis, S., Hogarth, R. M., & Gaba, A. (2010). Why forecasts fail. What to do 
instead. MIT Sloan Management Review, 51(2), 83–90. 
Marcus, J., Kurucz, E. C., & Colbert, B. A. (2010). Conceptions of the business-
society-nature interface: Implications for management scholarship. Business 
and Society, 49(3), 402–438. https://doi.org/10.1177/0007650310368827 
McGrath, R. G. (2010). Business models: A discovery driven approach. Long Range 
Planning, 43(2–3), 247–261. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.005 

 
 
Mitchell, R. K., Wood, D. J., & Agle, B. (1997). Toward a Theory of Stakeholder 
Identification and Salience : Defining the Principle of Who and What Really 
Counts Authors ( s ): Ronald K . Mitchell , Bradley R . Agle and Donna J . Wood 
Source : The Academy of Management Review , Vol . 22 , No . 4 ( Oct. 
Academy 
of 
Management 
Review, 
22(4), 
853–886. 
https://doi.org/10.5465/AMR.1997.9711022105 
Nonaka, I., Toyama, R., & Konno, N. (2000). SECI, Ba and Leadership: A Unified 
Model of Dynamic Knowledge Creation. Long Range Planning, 33(1), 5–34. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0024-6301(99)00115-6 
OECD Directorate for Science, & Technology And Industry. (2012). THE FUTURE OF 
ECO-INNOVATION: The Role of Business Models in Green Transformation. 
OECD background paper, in Proceedings of the OECD/European 
Commission/Nordic 
Innovation 
Joint 
Workshop. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.85.4.768 
Osterwalder, A. (2004). The Business Model Ontology - A Proposition in a Design 
Science 
Approach. 
Business. 
UNIVERSITE 
DE 
LAUSANNE. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9310.2010.00605.x 
Peralta, A., Carrillo-Hermosilla, J., & Crecente, F. (2018). Alternatives for the eco-
innovation of business models: a conceptual reference to valueholders (SERIE 
DOCUMENTOS DE TRABAJO No. 2/2018). 
Picken, J. C. (2017). From startup to scalable enterprise: Laying the foundation. 
Business 
Horizons, 
60(5), 
587–595. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2017.05.002 
Pipatprapa, A., Huang, H. H., & Huang, C. H. (2017). The Role of Quality 
Management & Innovativeness on Green Performance. Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
and 
Environmental 
Management, 
24(3), 
249–260. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1416 
Powell, J. D., & Bitner, L. N. (1992). Specifying success measures within a 
performance domain. 
Sai Manohar, S., & Pandit, S. R. (2013). Core Values and Beliefs: A Study of Leading 
Innovative Organizations. Journal of Business Ethics, 125(4), 667–680. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-013-1926-5 
Sarasvathy, S. D. (2001). Causation and effectuation: Toward a theoretical shift 
from economic inevitability to entrepreneurial contingency. Academy of 
Management 
Review, 
26(2), 
243–263. 
https://doi.org/10.5465/AMR.2001.4378020 
Song, W., & Yu, H. (2018). Green Innovation Strategy and Green Innovation: The 
Roles of Green Creativity and Green Organizational Identity. Corporate 
Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 25(2), 135–150. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/csr.1445 

 
 
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a “Sustainability Business 
Model.” 
Organization 
& 
Environment, 
21, 
103–127. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1086026608318042 
Tiemann, I., Breuer, H., Fichter, K., & Lüdeke Freund, F. (2018). Sustainability-
oriented business model development: principles, criteria and tools. 
International 
Journal 
of 
Entrepreneurial 
Venturing, 
10(2), 
256. 
https://doi.org/10.1504/IJEV.2018.10013801 
Venkatesh, V., Morris, M. G., Davis, G. B., & Davis, F. D. (2003). User acceptance of 
information technology: toward a unified view. MIS Quarterly, 27(3), 425–
478. 
Venkatesh, V., Thong, J. Y. L., & Xu, X. (2012). Consumer acceptance and use of 
information technology: extending the unified theory of acceptance and use 
of technology. MIS Quarterly, 36(1), 157–178. 
Weissbrod, I., & Bocken, N. M. P. (2016). Developing sustainable business 
experimentation capability - A case study. Journal of Cleaner Production, 1–
14. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.11.009 
Wirtz, B. W., Göttel, V., & Daiser, P. (2016). Business Model Innovation: 
Development, Concept and Future Research Directions. Journal of Business 
Model, 4(1), 1–28. https://doi.org/10.5278/OJS.JBM.V4I1.1621 
Wirtz, B. W., Pistoia, A., Ullrich, S., & Göttel, V. (2016). Business Models: Origin, 
Development and Future Research Perspectives. Long Range Planning, 
49(1), 36–54. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2015.04.001 
York, Jonathan L; Danes, J. E. (2014). Customer development, innovation, and 
decision-making biases in the lean startup. Journal of Small Business 
Management, 
24(2), 
21–39. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-
627X.2011.00322.x 
 
 

 
 
Taking stock of sustainable business 
models: Past accomplishments and 
future promises 
 
Koen van Bommel, Marleen Blanson Henkemans, Tammo 
Brinkhorst, Marnix Meurs 
Vrije Universiteit, The Netherlands 
 
Abstract 
Ten years after Stubbs and Cocklin’s (2008) seminal article on sustainable busi-
ness models (SBM), the current study takes stock of the literature on SBMs in the 
period 2008-2018 through a systematic literature review. The main aim of the 
article is to gain insights into 1) the characteristics of SBM studies to date (e.g. 
methods; sectors; scope; geographical focus); 2) how SBMs have been defined and 
3) what avenues for further research the SBM community sees as particularly 
promising to explore. The review shows a sharp increase in SBM articles over the 
last three years, yet at the same time a persistent emphasis on qualitative work 
that draws primarily on illustrative case studies that focus on a limited variety of 
sectors. Studies mostly focus on explaining how SBM’s work and should be im-
plemented and managed and focus less explicitly on exactly what SBMs offer. 
Essential elements of a SBM definition are 1) an integrated view on sustainability; 
2) a broad notion of value; 3) an explicit stakeholder-focus and 4) a system-
perspective rather than an organization-centric one. Future research suggestions 
revolve around three main dimensions, namely 1) the scope and methods of 
studies; 2) developing and managing SBMs and 3) the outcomes of SBMs. These 
results do not only illustrate the road travelled thus far, but also add conceptual 
clarity to the sustainable business model concept and offers suggestions for re-
search projects that can build the foundations for the next ten years of research 
on sustainable business models. 
 
 

 
 
Keywords 
business models for sustainability, sustainable business models, sustainable 
business model innovation, literature review 

 
 
Towards Sustainable Business Models 
for Living Labs 
A long-term Business Model Study of Austrian  
Urban Mobility Labs 
 
Gert Breitfuss1,*, Martin Berger2, Linda Doerrzapf2,  
 
1Know-Center GmbH; 2TU Vienna 
 
*gbreitfuss@know-center.at 
 
Extended abstract  
Keywords 
Business Model, Urban Mobility, Living Lab, Sustainable Organization 
Problem 
The Austrian Federal Ministry for Transport, Innovation and Technology created a 
new programme initiative to fund a set of real-world laboratories to provide a vital 
innovation ecosystem for mobility and transport. Five Urban Mobility Labs (UML) 
located in four urban areas have been selected for funding (duration 4 years) and 
started operation in 2017. The five UML offer specific innovation enabling service 
(service packages) embedded in an initial Business Model. The labs gained already 
first experiences on the viability of initial Business Model during the first year of 
operation. In order to cover the risk of a high dependency of public funding (which 
is mostly limited in time), the lab management teams face the challenge to actively 
further develop the UML Business Model in terms of sustainability. Particular 
attention needs to be drawn on the fit between the offered value and the 
customer segments as well as on diversified revenue streams (Mastelic et al., 
2015). There is a shortage of knowledge on how a persistent and viable Business 
Model of such Living Labs can be developed and which success factors play a role. 

 
 
Background and Related Work 
As the Austrian UML initiative is oriented towards the concept of Real-Life Labs 
and Living Labs (Breitfuss et al., 2018), the Living Lab approach (Leminen, 2015; 
Ballon and Schuurman, 2015) has been used as a scientific basis for the present 
work. Since Living Lab organizations are complex units, Schuurman (2015) 
proposes a distinction between three different Living Lab activity levels (macro, 
meso, and micro level). This paper focuses on the “macro level”, where Living Labs 
are seen as a Public-Privat-People Partnership (PPPP) consisting of different 
stakeholders, organized to carry out Living Lab research and user-driven open 
innovation projects. The non-profit-organization European Network of Living Labs 
(ENoLL) acts as a supporting, a labelling and a knowledge sharing network for their 
member Living Labs. According to ENoLL website, historically more than 440 Labs 
have been labelled as Living Labs since 2006, but currently only 167 Living Labs are 
listed as active. There are certainly many reasons for stopping Living Lab activities 
and not every Living Lab is or was a member of ENoLL. Since we are aware of the 
central role of a Business Model in maintaining a complex organization, such as a 
Living Lab, we hypothesize a dependency between a sustainable Business Model 
and the lifespan of a Living Lab. 
There is already a lot of research available on, for example Living Lab case studies 
(Juujärvi and Pesso, 2013; Haider et al., 2016), Living Lab Methodology (Ståhlbröst 
and Holst, 2012) and even on designing and exploring Living Lab Business Models 
(Schaffers et al., 2007; Katzy, 2012) but very less on how to keep a Living Lab alive 
(Mastelic et al., 2015). There is a need for in-depth longitudinal analysis of Living 
Lab Business Models covering aspects on growing partner network, scalability, and 
replicability in terms of other domains or geographical locations (districts, cities, 
regions etc.). This paper serves as a continuation of the accompanying study by 
Berger et al. (2016) in the exploratory process of Austrian UML initative. 
Overall, the research goals are to (1) analyse the current UML Business Models of 
the five UML concerning strength and weaknesses, (2) determine the main 
challenges in the Business Model development process, and (3) identify empirical 
success factors for sustainable UML Business Models. 
Methodology 
To answer the research questions, a method mix of desk research (review of 
existing secondary sources e.g web presence of UML, dissemination material, etc.) 
and qualitative methods have been selected. In order to get an insight into the 

 
 
UML Business Model, 2 times 10 semi-structured interviews (two responsible 
persons of each UML) are planned. The first circle of the interviews took place 
between July 2018 and January 2019. The second circle of interviews is planned 
for 2020 in order to capture the evolution and the future prospects of the UML 
Business Model. The first interviews lasted about 70 minutes and were 
electronically recorded. The first interviews were evaluated through qualitative 
content analysis (Mayring, 2015) by analysing the conversation logs 
systematically. Furthermore, the results were summarized in form of a Business 
Model Canvas (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010) for each UML and outlined in an 
overall tabular comparison of strength and weaknesses. Between the two rounds 
of the survey, a Business Model workshop is planned to enable the exchange of 
knowledge between the UML and to generate ideas for the future development 
of the UML Business Models. 
Findings 
Since the UML organization differs a lot from a conventional company due to its 
multi-stakeholder structure and the public funding conditions, the initial set up 
and further development of a viable Business Model is a complex activity. 
Although the general conditions of the labs are the same for all five labs due to 
the guidelines of the funding agency, the initial Business Models of the labs are 
very different. Three labs are operated by universities, two by public 
administration bodies. Due to different thematic and geographic focus of the labs, 
there is a broad variety of service offerings observable. A first analysis of the 
offered services regarding clarity, service-market-fit, and possible pricing models 
shows different degrees of maturity. We also discovered different strategies in 
terms of value creation (provision of services by partners or by UML themselves) 
and marketing and communication activities.  
Conclusion and Outlook 
Overall the research work adds empirical insights on how a UML Business Model 
evolves on a long-term perspective. This research contributes on the one hand to 
the Business Model Innovation community due to long-term empirical insights of 
Business Model development processes of complex multi-stakeholder 
organizations. On the other hand, the Living Lab community gets a better 
understanding of what factors are driving the success of a Business Model and 
what development steps are necessary for keeping a Living Lab alive. Furthermore, 
the present research also serves to evaluate existing frameworks and models for 
developing viable Business Models.  

 
 
Based on the gained research insights a comprehensive list of success factors and 
hands-on recommendations will be derived. This should help UML organizations 
in developing a viable Business Model in order to support sustainable innovations 
in transport and mobility. 
Acknowledgement 
This research was supported by Know-Center GmbH which is funded within the 
Austrian COMET Program under the auspices of the Austrian Federal Ministry of 
Transport, Innovation and Technology, the Austrian Federal Ministry of Digital and 
Economic Affairs and by the State of Styria. 
REFERENCES 
 
Ballon, P. and Schuurman, D. (2015), “Living labs. Concepts, tools and cases”, info, 
Vol. 17 No. 4. 
Berger, M., Doerrzapf, L., Breitfuss, G., Poglitsch, M., Stickler, A., Sodl, V. and 
Remele, E. (2016), Begleitstudie Urbane Mobilitätslabore. Lernprozesse und 
Handlungsempfehlungen., Graz/Wien. 
Breitfuss, G., Berger, M. and Doerrzapf, L. (2018), “Innovation Milieus for Mobility 
– Analysis of Innovation Lab Approaches for the Establishment of Urban 
Mobility Labs in Austria”, Proceedings of 7th Transport Research Arena, 
Vienna, Austria. 
Haider, C., Kopp, U. and Pajones, M. (2016), “Sustainable Transport in Upper 
Austria: Case Study for Setting up a Living Lab Concept to Accelerate 
Innovations”, Journal of technology management & innovation, Vol. 11 
No. 3, pp. 101–107. 
Juujärvi, S. and Pesso, K. (2013), “Actor Roles in an Urban Living Lab. What Can We 
Learn from Suurpelto, Finland?”, Technology Innovation Management 
Review, pp. 22–27. 
Katzy, B.R. (2012), “Designing Viable Business Models for Living Labs”, Technology 
Innovation Management Review, pp. 19–24. 
Leminen, S. (2015), “Q&A. What are Living Labs?”, Technology Innovation 
Management Review, Vol. 5 No. 9, pp. 29–35. 
Mastelic, J., Sahakian, M. and Bonazzi, R. (2015), “How to keep a living lab alive?”, 
info, Vol. 17 No. 4, pp. 12–25. 
Mayring, P. (2015), Qualitative Inhaltsanalyse: Grundlagen und Techniken, 12th 
ed., Beltz Pädagogik, Weinheim. 

 
 
Osterwalder, A. and Pigneur, Y. (2010), Business Model Generation: A Handbook 
for Visionaries, Game Changers, and Challengers, John, Wiley & Sons, New 
Jersey. 
Schaffers, H., Cordoba, M.G., Hongisto, P., Merz, C. and van Rensburg, J. (2007), 
“Exploring Business Models for Open Innovation in Rural Living Labs”, IEEE 
International Technology Management Conference (ICE), pp. 1–13. 
Schuurman, D. (2015), Bridging the gap between Open and User Innovation: 
Exploring the value of Living Labs as a means to structure user contribution 
and manage distributed innovation, Ghent. 
Ståhlbröst, A. and Holst, M. (2012), The Living Lab Methodology Handbook, Luleå. 
 
 
 

 
 
When is Financing of Circular Business 
Models a Perceived Problem 
A study of potentially correlated features 
 
Ann-Charlotte Mellquist1,*, Emanuela Vanacore1, Susanne 
Olofsson2, Thomas Polesie3 
 
1RISE AB; 2Olofsson AB; 3University of Gothenburg, School of 
Business, Economics and Law 
 
*ann-charlotte.mellquist@ri.se 
 
Abstract  
This study explores the challenge with obtaining financing for companies 
transitioning to PaaS models, and their related features. From our multiple case 
study we draw the conclusion that financing is an issue, and that it will require 
new strategies from both manufacturing firms and financiers to overcome. 
Keywords 
Circular economy, Business model, Product-as-a-service, PSS, Finance. 
Introduction & Background 
An economic system can be defined as a way of organising the production and 
distribution of goods and services, according to specific structures, rules and 
processes. This “operating system” of human societies moulds the way we 
interrelate with each other and the natural system. Since mankind belongs to and 
is dependent on the natural environment for satisfying its needs and surviving, it 
is vital to preserve and regenerate our natural ecosystems. 
However, today’s current economic system relies on an indiscriminate use of 
resources and oblivious management of our “operating system” that have put our 
ecological environment under an unprecedented and dangerous pressure. This 

 
 
situation, as argued by many authors from different scientific fields (Stahel 2010, 
EMF 2012, Tukker 2015, Bocken et al. 2018), coupled with other macro-trends 
such as an increasing global population, is not sustainable and requires a new 
“operating system” to ensure sustainable development and the mankind survival. 
Over the past few years, the concept of circular economy (CE) has gained 
increasing attention as a means to pursue sustainable development. A CE is 
essentially an economy with greatly reduced material throughput, driven by 
renewable energy which demands a great transformation and a tremendous 
structural change. 
In other words, there is a need to decouple economic wealth creation from the 
consumption of finite resources. Such a shift requires the adoption of a radically 
new value creation and distribution logic which should be translated in innovative 
business models where products, components, services, materials, and their by-
products circulate at their highest value for the longest period (Hopkinson et al. 
2018). However, research shows that the obstacles to such a transition are 
manifold and include the following, as shown in table 1:  
Table 1. Obstacles to transition to PaaS models. 
Financial: Measuring financial benefits of circular economy; Financial profitability 
Structural: Missing exchange of information; Unclear responsibility distribution; Lack of 
Political support 
Operational: Infrastructure / Supply chain management; Develop appropriate market signals 
Attitudinal: Perception of sustainability; Risk aversion 
Technological Product design; Integration into production processes 
 
 (Sources: Elaborated from UN Environment Inquiry 2017, Ritzén and Sandström 
2017) 

 
 
Different rationale and tools are therefore imperative, and in this paper we will 
focus on - out of several resource allocation strategies - the financial mechanisms 
that could hinder a transition to a CE. When a company moves to a PaaS model, 
the ownership of the product is retained in the company. This is one of the 
strongest incentives for circularity and resource efficiency, as the driving force of 
the company changes from a flow-oriented (sell as many products as quickly as 
possible) to a value-saving (keep the product as long as possible) business logic 
(Stahel 2010).  
Our assumption is that this change in ownership may have major consequences 
for the manufacturing company's balance sheet. Instead of the products 
disappearing from the balance sheet when sold, they will remain as an asset 
throughout the period the company uses them for their rental/service activities. 
Hopefully - from a circular perspective - for many years. This means that the 
company's cash flow will change which, in turn, will impact the need for capital 
and external financing. Earlier studies show that financial market players do not 
value long-term stable revenue and cash flows sufficiently high, but work with risk 
and credit assessment, where the more short-term impact on cash flow and 
balance sheet, as well as difficulties in establishing a correct residual value for used 
products, become a problem (Linder and Williander 2015, FinanCE 2016, EIB 2015, 
Circle Economy 2016). However, the literature on to what extent and under what 
circumstances this is a real problem for the transition remains scarce.  
The degree of complexity is amplified at a business ecosystem level. Today’s 
economy is characterised by a high level of interdependence and 
interconnectedness that is boosted by an exponential development of technology. 
Products and services are embedded in wider and more complex systems than 
ever before (Roome and Looche 2016). Therefore, any business activity including 
financing, is heavily dependent on and affected by the organisation’s network and 
external environment (Bocken et al. 2018, Roome and Louche 2016). It follows 
that business success, particularly in terms of successful transition towards a CE 
system, largely derives from how rapidly and effectively organisations evolve. 
Increasing attention needs to be given to the relationship between social, 
economic and financial systems, economic opportunities, technology, know-how 
and social and environmental conditions (ING 2015, Roome and Looche 2016). 
This research investigated the potential challenges in obtaining the necessary 
capital for companies who want to transition from selling goods to selling function 
or service. The study has been conducted in Sweden encompassing both 

 
 
manufacturing firms and financial actors. However, the current analysis mainly 
considers the work and results from data collection with the manufacturing and 
production companies. This will ensure a clear focus of the analysis while providing 
sufficient information on the discussed topic. A separate paper further evaluating 
data and information elaborated from the interaction with financial stakeholders 
could be developed, as a next step. 
The following research questions have been answered: 
● Is availability of capital a real challenge for firms who want to transition to 
PaaS models?  
● If so, what seems to be the likely features of the companies who experience 
the problem?  
Method 
This study benefitted from a variety of sources which have supported wide-
ranging and complex research questions whilst strengthening sources reliability 
(Yin 2009). A mixed-data approach seems to be particularly valuable when applied 
to social sciences since these intrinsically deal with complexity and contradictions 
(Bryman and Bell 2011). 
According to complexity theory the adoption of a case study approach is an 
instrumental and guiding tool to investigate a phenomenon as an integrated 
whole (Anderson et al. 2005). Moreover, case studies are likely to greatly 
contribute to knowledge creation in relatively unexplored research fields (Yin 
2009) such as finance in the CE. Consequently, the study of cases presents a 
portrait of some companies and their potential to embrace circularity through the 
elaboration of several sources and tools that can be applied in similar contexts. 
In this multiple case study a range of data have been adopted including the use of 
qualitative and quantitative data from secondary and primary sources. The 
collected secondary sources comprise documentation from publicly available 
documents such as market reports, analyses, third-party articles from websites 
and publicly available financial reports. The primary sources were collected during 
individual interviews in person and over the telephone; exchange of emails and 
workshops with two types of key players, i.e. manufacturing firms and financial 
actors.   

 
 
Set of companies: 
The cases in our study consists of ten different manufacturing and selling 
companies. They represent a wide spread of businesses of different sizes, in 
diverse industries, owned by various types of actors and with diverse levels of 
circularity status. They are all companies that either already use PaaS models 
and/or want to expand into these models, see table 2 for a brief overview, based 
on interviews and publicly available financial data: 
Table 2. Brief overview of investigated companies 
Company 
Short description of value proposition and circular 
ambitions 
Turnover 
(MSEK) 
No of 
employees 
A 
A designs, manufactures and sells office furniture. A 
has a classic linear business model and a clear 
sustainability profile with high circular ambitions. A 
is at the beginning of the development towards 
PaaS models, and have so far conducted a few test 
sales. 
4137 
2279 
B 
B designs and sells functional clothing for an active 
life and works exclusively with different types of 
circular models (e.g. recycled materials in garments 
and garments that can be recycled). PaaS models 
are still a relatively small part of sales, though 
increasing. 
137 
42 
C 
C manufactures and sells interior fittings for service 
vans. C looks for new business models mainly 
through the addition of digital services, and sees 
the transition to PaaS models as a long-term 
project, which has not yet started in practice. 
231 
89 
D 
D designs, manufactures and sells small light 
electric vehicles for taxi use. D is in the start-up 
phase and looks for expansion paths, both through 
product sales and PaaS models. 
5 
9 
E 
E rents out forklifts to companies in different 
industries, both short and long term. The offer 
includes services/uptime agreement. Each forklift is 
rented several times and sold on a secondary 
market at the end of the rental period. 
1523 
437 
F 
F designs and manufactures lighting and fittings 
from used components and leases them to 
property owners. F is in the start-up phase and sets 
out to drive a sustainable and circular business. 
1 
4 
G 
G buys, rents and leases out coffee and vending 
machines to a broad business market. Since the 
start, G has used a model where machines are 
rented or leased out for at least two rounds, usually 
to the same customer. The offer includes coffee, 
service and repair. 
950 
405 

 
 
H 
H is a global giant in electricity transmission, 
infrastructure, industry and transportation. The 
product line ranges from electric motors, 
transformers and robots to switches and 
pushbuttons. Most of the products are long-lived 
(40+ years) and it has been difficult to accelerate 
circular development mainly due to customer 
resistance. 
33030 
8027 
I 
I rents out entrance mats to companies and public 
organisations. This circular business model has 
been in place since the start of the company, with 
almost all of the turnover being generated from the 
PaaS business. 
33 
27 
J 
J buys and sells used furniture. The furniture are 
reconditioned and, if necessary, repaired and sold 
with warranty. About 30% of the turnover is PaaS 
based, and the company's goal is to continuously 
expand that part. 
45 
30 
 
Definitions of features and criteria used for classification: 
From the interviews and from publicly available financial reporting, we have 
gathered some descriptive statistics about these case companies, which allows us 
to compare them and draw some conclusions in relation to our research 
questions. The data are not statistically proved, yet they provide us with some 
valuable insights about situations when financing of a transition to PaaS cannot be 
expected to be solved with a business as usual approach, but will need some extra 
attention.   
The criteria we have chosen to look at, the data source and the different possible 
outcomes for each of them, are summarised in table 3: 
 
 

 
 
Table 3. Criteria for analysis. 
Criteria 
Data source 
Different possible outcomes 
Circular 
expansion 
plans 
Interviews 
• 
Y – Yes, the company plans 
to expand the PaaS business 
• 
N – No circular expansion 
plans 
Is availability of capital 
in 
relation 
to 
the 
transition, a problem or 
not? 
Interviews 
• 
Y – Yes, the company has 
already encountered issues 
with obtaining financing 
• 
Y → N – The company 
expects to encounter issues 
when 
starting/continuing 
expansion  
• 
N – No, the company has not 
encountered and does not 
expect to encounter issues 
with financing 
Circularity 
level 
(in 
terms of PaaS) 
Interviews 
• 
L – No, or very small, existing 
PaaS business 
• 
M – Less than 50% of 
turnover is PaaS based 
• 
H – More than 50% of 
turnover is PaaS based 
Ownership 
Interviews 
• 
Family 
• 
Founders 
• 
Small engaged group 
• 
Investment company 
• 
Private equity fund 
• 
Listed on stock exchange 
(or combinations of the above) 
Business maturity 
Financial statement 
• 
Start-up – Less than 10 years 
on the market 
• 
Established – More than 10 
years on the market 
Financial 
stability 
(EBIDTA/turnover 
– 
average over 3 years) 
Financial statement 
• 
Not stable – Below 0% 
• 
Stable but low – Less than 
5%  
• 
Stable – More than 5%  
Size 
Financial statement 
• 
SME – Less than 500 MSEK 
turnover, and less than 250 
employees 
• 
Large – More than 500 MSEK 
turnover, and more than 250 
employees 

 
 
Findings 
The first research question - if the availability of capital is actually a challenge for 
the companies who want to expand their PaaS operations - are summarised below 
in table 4: 
Table 4. Is availability of capital a challenge or not? 
Company 
Circular expansion plans 
Financing is an issue  
A 
Y 
N  →Y 
B 
Y 
N  →Y 
J 
Y 
N  →Y 
I 
Y 
N  →Y 
D 
Y 
Y 
F 
Y 
Y 
C 
Y 
N 
E 
Y 
N 
H 
Y 
N 
G 
Y 
N 
 
From this, we can draw the following conclusions on if financing is a real issue for 
expansion of PaaS models or not: 
➔ Yes. Many companies that have expansion plans for their PaaS business 
have already experienced or assess that they will experience, difficulty with 
financing.  

 
 
To analyse the second research question about what typical features seem to be 
correlated with the fact that the company has an issue with financing or not, we 
combine the other selected criteria with the issue level, as depicted in table 5: 
Table 5. Correlation between the challenge and selected features. 
Company 
Financing 
is an issue  
Circularity 
level 
Ownershi
p 
structure  
Business 
mat 
Fin. 
stability  
Size 
A 
N  →Y 
L 
Family 
Est 
Stable but 
low 
L 
B 
N  →Y 
L 
Founders 
+ 
small 
group 
Est 
Stable but 
low 
SME 
J 
N  →Y 
M 
Founders/
family 
Est 
Stable 
SME 
I 
N  →Y 
H 
Founders/
family 
Est 
Stable 
SME 
D 
Y 
L 
Founder + 
small 
group 
+ 
listed 
Start-up 
Not stable 
SME 
F 
Y 
H 
Founders/
family 
Start-up 
Not stable 
SME 
C 
N 
L 
Investme
nt comp 
Est 
Stable 
SME 
E 
N 
H 
Large 
group/list
ed 
Est 
Stable but 
low 
L 
H 
N 
L 
Large 
group/list
ed 
Est 
Stable 
L 

 
 
G 
N 
H 
Private 
equity 
Est 
Stable 
L 
 
From this, we can draw the following conclusions on how these features seem to 
correlate with the experienced level of issue with obtaining finances, for our 
companies. 
Circularity level: 
Companies with high, low and medium circularity levels (i.e. the current part of 
the turnover related to PaaS sales) are represented in both the group that is 
experiencing financing issues and the group that is not. Hence, the circularity level 
as such does not seem to be correlated with the issue of financing. 
Ownership structure: 
All companies experiencing an issue, or assessing that they will have an issue when 
they expand the PaaS models, are owned by family, founders and/or a small 
engaged group of owners. One of them is also listed on a stock exchange. The 
companies that do not have an issue with financing are either part of a larger 
group or have financially strong owners, such as investment companies. Hence, 
there seems to be a correlation between issues with financing and ownership 
structure. 
Business maturity: 
Start-ups in general have issues with financing and this is also the case here. 
However, also the established firms have difficulty with financing. Hence, the fact 
that the company is established does not guarantee exempt from issues with 
financing. 
Financial stability: 
All companies that are financially unstable (i.e. the start-up companies) have 
issues with financing. However, some of the companies with a stable financial 
situation have the same problem. Hence, financial stability of the company does 
not guarantee exempt from issues with financing. 

 
 
Size: 
All SME’s experience issues with financing. All large companies, except one, are 
assessed not to have issues with financing. The large company that does have an 
issue with financing is the only one of the established companies that also faces a 
stable but low profitability. Hence, there seems to be a correlation between issues 
with financing and size, at least partly. SME’s in general seem to face the problem 
more often than large companies, but large companies are not exempt from issues 
with financing. 
It is not possible to draw any statistical conclusions from these facts, but the 
combined insights from these descriptive statistics suggest the following tentative 
correlations between different company features and the issue with financing: 
➔ Even if the company is financially strong and has a mature business, it 
does not guarantee that the PaaS expansion can take place without special 
consideration of financing. SME’s are more likely to encounter issues than larger 
companies. Companies owned by family, founders or small engaged owner 
groups are also more likely to encounter issues than companies that are part of 
larger groups. 
Discussion 
The results of our study can be used to better understand what type of companies 
can expect to meet challenges when transitioning to PaaS models. These insights 
can, in turn, be useful for developing strategies to meet the challenge - both for 
the manufacturing firms themselves and for the financial actors. 
Normally, stable and profitable companies can test PaaS business models on a 
small scale without external financing. As soon as a PaaS model is to be scaled up, 
however, unanimity is high among our interviewed companies, that an external 
financier is required. At some point of the PaaS based income share of total sales 
(and which may vary for different companies depending on the financial position), 
short-term liquidity will need to be strengthened. This confirms the "liquidity gap" 
theory in the literature (ING 2015). The stronger the balance sheet is, the longer a 
company can manage without external borrowing. 
Companies that are subsidiaries in larger groups and/or have strong owners can 
normally obtain working capital financing within the group, either from a mother 

 
 
company or from a dedicated finance company within the group. As long as the 
group is stable, financing is not a concern for the individual subsidiary. However, 
the cost of internal financing compared with costs of external loans has not been 
considered here. This is potentially worth studying further, since internal financing 
is more costly than external financing.  
Small start-up companies are normally in search of capital for general expansion 
of the business, and problems in obtaining financing are not limited to the 
expansion of PaaS models.  
Overall, the issue with financing is a real challenge for most companies 
transitioning to and expanding PaaS models. To succeed in this endeavour - and 
thereby contribute to the overall transition to a CE and the awaited environmental 
gains - it is strongly suggested that companies work strategically with this issue. 
Strategic work could involve purely internal activities, such as adjusting KPIs to 
cope with the new balance sheet situation and, in the more developed case, treat 
the new PaaS business as a “special purpose vehicle” (Govindarajan and Trimble 
2010) to allow for different business models with different KPIs to be run in 
parallel. However, based on some of the data collected from the financial actors 
of our study, when creating a strategy for expansion of PaaS models the following 
aspects involving the external financier are particularly important to address: 
● A profitable business case is central to all assessments of 
creditworthiness and refunding capacity. Specific challenges in 
relation to the PaaS business case includes the fact that the PaaS 
model might be new in the industry, which means that the financier 
does not have adequate benchmark data, to assess the business case. 
In addition, the time perspective of the assessment changes, with the 
relatively longer payback time for each product produced.  The 
financier needs to update risk assessment, both in terms of time 
perspective and in terms of business case benchmarks.  
● Collateral needs special attention. In the PaaS cases, “normal” 
collateral, such as valuable fixed assets or a fast churning inventory, 
might not be available. In fact, in a PaaS model aiming for high 
circularity, the goal is to have an inventory with products which churn 
as slowly as possible.  This is challenging from a traditional financing 
perspective. The notion of collateral will have to be rethought, 
possibly including contracts and customer relations. The realisation of 

 
 
this type of collateral - at the event of bankruptcy - is also challenging 
in an industry with emerging PaaS models, due to unestablished 
secondary markets. 
As suggested in the literature (Bocken et al. 2018, Roome and Louche 2016), there 
is a need for expanding networks and business ecosystems in relation to expansion 
of PaaS models. Our findings suggest that the companies aiming for PaaS need to 
establish a close relation with their financiers. There is a need for a deep 
understanding of the customer’s business from the financier’s side, potentially 
also including understanding of the customer’s customers. The financier thus 
becomes an important part of the new business ecosystem around the emerging 
PaaS business. 
It remains to be seen whether a lack of financing will actually hinder the shift to 
circular business models, or only postpone it, until the challenges are solved. The 
purpose of this paper is to augment the knowledge of the challenges, so as to 
increase the probability to overcome them. 
Conclusion 
On the backdrop of the global environmental challenges of our time, a CE promises 
to provide an important piece of the solution puzzle. Circular business models in 
general, and PaaS models in particular, are important and powerful enablers of 
the transition, since they engage industry and business with their huge potential 
to scale up new production and consumption patterns.   
We set out to investigate one of the least explored challenges of the transition to 
PaaS for manufacturing firms, namely the need for financing. In a multiple case 
study, based on data collected in interviews and workshops together with a 
number of manufacturing firms and financial actors, we conclude that financing is 
an issue for most manufacturing firms, regardless of previous experience with 
PaaS models, financial stability, size and business maturity. Manufacturing firms 
owned by large corporations and strong owner groups, such as investment 
companies, seem to be the exception, and might not be as strongly reliant on 
external capital for the expansion. Our research also suggests that the financial 
actors who wish to be part of this emerging business, need to revise their view on 
collateral and set out to truly understand the business of their customers. The 
financiers have an important role to play in the new business ecosystems around 
the emerging PaaS business. 

 
 
With this study, we have made an empirical contribution to the field of CE and 
finance. Our conclusions are preliminary and we strongly recommend that more 
research is undertaken in the area of both financing strategy and the financiers’ 
role in emerging circular business ecosystems. 
References 
Anderson, R.A., Crabtree, B.F., Steele, D.J. and McDaniel Jr, R.R. (2005). Case study 
research: The view from complexity science. Qualitative Health Research. 
Vol. 15 (5), pp.669-685. https://doi.10.1177/1049732305275208 . 
Bocken, N. M. P., Schuit, C. S. C. and Kraaijenhagen, C. (2018). Experimenting with 
a circular business model: Lessons from eight cases. Environmental 
Innovation 
and 
Societal 
Transitions. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eist.2018.02.001 .  
Bryman, A. and Bell, E. (2011). Business Research Methods, 3rd Edition. London: 
Oxford University Press. 
Circle Economy (2016).  Empower Financial Decision Making in a Circular Economy. 
Available at:  http://www.circle-economy.com/financing-circular-business  
Accessed 12/01/2017. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF) (2012). Towards the Circular Economy Vol. 1: 
an economic and business rationale for an accelerated transition. Cowes: 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. 
European Investment Bank, InnovFin Advisory and EU Commission (EIB) (2015). 
Assessment of access-to-finance conditions for projects supporting Circular 
Economy, 
Final 
Report. 
Available 
at: 
http://www.eib.org/en/infocentre/publications/all/access-to-finance-
conditions-for-financing-the-circular-economy.htm  Accessed 30/01/2019. 
FinanCE (2016). Money makes the World Go Around. Available at: 
http://www.circle-economy.com/moneymakestheworldgoround Accessed 
12/01/2017. 
Govindarajan, V. and Trimble, C. (2010). The Other Side of Innovation: Solving the 
Execution Challenge. Harvard Business Press. 
Hopkinson, P., Zils, M., Hawkins, P. and Roper, S. (2018). Managing a Complex 
Global Circular Economy Business Model: Opportunities and Challenges. 
California Management Review 2018, Vol. 60(3), pp. 71 –94. 
ING (2015). Rethinking finance in a circular economy – financial implications of 
circular 
business 
models. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.ing.nl/media/ING_EZB_Financing-the-Circular-
Economy_tcm162-84762.pdf  Accessed 12/01/2017. 

 
 
Linder, M., and Williander, M. (2017). Circular Business Model Innovation: 
Inherent Uncertainties. Business Strategy and the Environment, 26: 182–
196. https://doi.10.1002/bse.1906.  
Ritzén, S. and Sandström, G. Ö. (2017). Barriers to the Circular Economy - 
integration of perspectives and domains. The 9th CIRP IPSS Conference: 
Circular Perspectives on Product/Service-Systems. Amsterdam: Elsevier B.V. 
Roome, N. and Louche, C. (2016). Journeying Toward Business Models for 
Sustainability: A Conceptual Model Found Inside the Black Box of 
Organisational Transformation. Organization & Environment, Vol. 29., No. 1, 
pp. 11-35. 
Tukker, A. (2015). Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy - 
A 
review. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.049. 
Stahel W. (2010), The performance economy, Springer 2010. 
UN Environment Inquiry (2017). A Review of International Financial Standards as 
they 
Relate 
to 
Sustainable 
Development. 
Available 
at: 
https://wedocs.unep.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.11822/16806/Review_I
nternational_Financial_Standards_Sustainable_Development.pdf?sequenc
e=1&isAllowed=y  Accessed 28/01/2019.  
Yin, R. K. (2009). Case Study Research: Design and Methods, 4th Edition. California: 
Sage. 
 

 
 
When new business models go bad 
irresponsible innovation and the case 
of cycle hire schemes 
 
Thomas Benjamin Long1, Arnoud van Waes2 
1University of Groningen/ Campus Fryslân, The Netherlands, 2Utrecht 
University, The Netherlands 
 
Abstract 
Innovations are needed to help tackle grand challenges such as climate change, 
and innovations to business models are a particularly promising area for sustain-
ability. This is because business models influence what value is created and how, 
and can fundamentally alter the underlying logic used by a business. Business 
models can also profoundly influence how technological innovations are deployed 
within society. However, innovation outcomes can be unpredictable; unintended 
consequences are not just possible but probable. To minimise negative impacts 
and enhance the success of sustainable business models, socio-ethical factors 
must be incorporated and managed. Research on responsible innovation, which 
seeks to manage socio-ethical factors, is well developed but has often used a 
technocentric lens. As such, it is unclear how socio-ethical factors interact with 
business model innovation processes and how they manifest themselves in the 
final business model configuration. In this research, we seek to explore the ex-tent 
to which the business model influences the type and nature of socio-ethical 
impacts and start to think about how they could be better managed to enhance 
the social desirability and ethical acceptability of business model innovations. To 
do this we explore cases of ‘irresponsible’ business models within the context of 
new cycle hire businesses in Europe. We contribute by linking the concepts of 
responsible innovation and business models, as well as highlighting how 
normative and socio-ethical factors can be integrated into business model design 
and organisational strategy. 
 
 

 
 
Keywords 
responsible innovation, business model innovation, socio-ethical factors 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP AS 
TRANSFORMATIVE FORCE 
TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY 
TRACK III 

 
 
Track III: Social Entrepreneurship as Transformative Force 
towards Sustainability 
 
Chairs: Nikolay Dentchev1, Philippe Eiselein2, and Abel Alan Diaz Gonzalez3 
1 2 3Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium 
 
 
Social entrepreneurs deal with social problems and entrepreneurial opportunities 
at the same time (Austin, Howard, & Wei-Skillern, 2006), and hence they are 
frequently referred to as “hybrid organizations” (Doherty, Haugh, & Lyon, 2014), 
“social enterprises” (Defourny & Nyssens, 2017) or “social ventures” (Desa & Basu, 
2013). Due to their innovative approach towards social problems, social 
entrepreneurs often introduce new breed of business models, where “the logic of 
doing business is based on solving environmental and social sustainability 
problems” (Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund, & Hansen, 2012, p.7). Despite the 
honourable efforts of these organizations, they face several difficulties on their 
quest towards a more sustainable society. Amongst them, solving “social problems 
often demand fundamental transformations in political, economic and social 
systems” (Alvord, Brown, & Letts, 2004, p.260). Such transformations take time, 
which offsets the financial needs of the organization on the short term, one of the 
key challenges for social enterprises. 
Considering the long-term objectives versus the short-term needs of the social 
enterprise, as well as the high-risk of failure, can we truly mark social 
entrepreneurship as a transformative force towards sustainability? How deep 
goes their impact in “enhancing the quality of life and enriching human existence 
around the globe” (Zahra, Rawhouser, Bhawe, Neubaum, & Hayton, 2008, p. 129)? 
And do cross-sectoral partnerships really hold the key for innovation and 
transformation towards a more sustainable society (Selsky & Parker, 2005)? 
References / Further Reading 
Alvord, S.H., Brown, L.D. and Letts, C.W. (2004), “Social Entrepreneurship and 
societal transformation: An Exploratory Study”, The journal of applied 
behavioral 
science, 
Vol. 
40 
No. 
3, 
available 
at:https://doi.org/10.1177/0021886304266847. 

 
 
Austin, J., Stevenson, H. and Wei-Skillern, J. (2006), “Social and commercial 
entrepreneurship: Same, different, or both?”, Entrepreneurship: Theory and 
Practice, Vol. 30 No. 1, pp. 1–22. 
Defourny, J. and Nyssens, M. (2017), “Fundamentals for an International Typology 
of Social Enterprise Models”, Voluntas, Vol. 28 No. 6, pp. 2469–2497. 
Desa, G. and Basu, S. (2013), “Optimization or bricolage? Overcoming resource 
constraints in global social entrepreneurship", Strategic Entrepreneurship 
Journal, Vol. 49, pp. 26–49. 
Doherty, B., Haugh, H. and Lyon, F. (2014), “Social enterprises as hybrid 
organizations: A review and research agenda”, International Journal of 
Management Reviews, Vol. 16 No. 4, pp. 417–436. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Hansen, E.G. (2012), “Business cases for 
sustainability: The role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability”, International Journal of Innovation and Sustainable 
Development, Vol. 6 No. 2, pp. 95–119. 
Selsky, J.W. and Parker, B. (2005), “Cross-Sector Partnerships to Address Social 
Issues : Challenges to Theory and Practice”, Journal of Management, Vol. 31 
No. 6, pp. 849–873. 
Zahra, S.A., Rawhouser, H., Bhawe, N., Neubaum, D.O. and Hayton, J. (2008), 
“Globalization of social entrepreneurship opportunities”, Strategic 
Entrepreneurship Journal, Vol. 2, pp. 117–131. 
 
 

 
 
Accountable markets: Degrowth, 
solidarity and social enterprise 
 
Richard Hull 
Goldsmiths, University of London, United Kingdom 
 
Extended Abstract 
Scholarship and practice focused on sustainable development, civil society and the 
social and solidarity economy are increasingly drawn into practical and theoretical 
engagement with markets. For sustainable development practitioners and 
scholars, “making markets work for the poor” (MM4P) has become a rallying cry 
for venture philanthropy and pro-business channels of “official development 
assistance” or overseas aid. This is increasingly through the format of what is 
known in development circles as ‘inclusive business’ (Perez de Mendiguren 
Castresana, 2013). Secondly, the increased outsourcing of public services and the 
need to diversify sources of income for voluntary action organisations is 
concentrating attention upon markets, amongst the scholars and practitioners of 
civil society and third sector arenas in the Global North (Eikenberry & Kluver, 
2004). Finally, there is a growing awareness of congruent interests between on 
the one hand civil society, the third sector and sustainable development; and on 
the other hand the growing awareness of Social & Solidarity Economy 
organisations (Gismondi et al, 2016).  
However, much of this increased engagement is often conducted within a 
framework which views markets and trading as ‘necessary evils’. This is 
understandable given the way that so-called ‘market efficiency’ and the alleged 
superiority of the Private Sector has been deployed since the 1970s as a blunt 
instrument to bludgeon the Public and Third Sectors both North and South of the 
globe. 
But the neoliberal view of markets is relatively recent and the preceding classical 
view of ‘self-regulated’ markets only several hundred years older. Markets as “a 
meeting place for the purpose of barter or buying and selling” (Polanyi, 1944 

 
 
[2001, p. 59) have been around for thousands of years as Polanyi noted. In 
addition, that neoliberal view of markets is almost always tied to the idealised 
notion of continued economic growth, a notion that is increasingly challenged with 
the sustainable development community and beyond, challenges which are 
yielding alternative understandings of economic ‘development’ such as Doughnut 
Economics (Raworth, 2017) and Degrowth (Kallis et al, 2018).  
So then, could it be possible to reshape markets to be more accountable and more 
suited to truly sustainable and solidarity economies and societies? 
We will argue that not only is it possible but it is already happening in quiet ways, 
more often in the Global South than the North. One example is the technique of 
Participatory Market Systems Development (PMSD) pioneered by international 
NGO Practical Action for over a decade. Mainstream market systems development 
uses traditional neoclassical assumptions about supply and demand and 
traditional value chain analysis to encourage so-called market based approaches 
to economic growth. Originating from USAID, the US body for disbursing overseas 
aid, it deploys classical/neoliberal views of markets. In contrast, PMSD implicitly 
acknowledges Polanyi’s insight that markets are embedded, changeable and 
configurable. PMSD entails first identifying all the relevant stakeholders to map 
current and desired patterns of economic activity, for instance in developing a 
regional market for milk-based products. Maintaining engagement with those 
stakeholders is a key element to pro-poor economic development.  
Other examples include development-focused interventions within the supply 
chains of Peruvian Alpaca; Callon’s (2015) thought experiment on designing 
‘alternative’ markets; Chakrabarti & Mason’s (2014) description of ‘bottom-up 
market design’ for the so-called ‘Base of the Pyramid’ (BOP), the poorest people 
of the world; and the Riversimple business model for hydrogen fuel cell cars as a 
mobility service instead of a product. 
We will further suggest that these and other examples have many similarities to a 
core element of the technique of Social Return on Investment for evaluating social 
impact, a technique widely used by UK social enterprises. That core element is the 
prior engagement of beneficiaries in the elaboration of appropriate methods for 
evaluating the social impact of an enterprise. That core element   Indeed, when 
social enterprise and similar initiatives are more thoughtfully focussed on systemic 
social impact (Pappi-Thornton, 2016) or on community wealth-building (Bhatt & 
Dubb, 2015; McInroy, 2018) we will argue that they have the potential to also 

 
 
enable more accountable and environmentally sustainable coordination of 
economic activity – markets that work for degrowth and solidarity. 
Keywords 
degrowth, markets, solidarity, social enterprise 
References 
Bhatt, Keane and Dubb, Steve (2015) Educate and Empower: Tools for Building 
Community Wealth, Takoma Park, MD: The Democracy Collaborative. 
Callon, Michel (2015) “How to Design Alternative Markets: The Case of Genetically 
Modified / Non-Genetically Modified Coexistence”, Chapter 13 in: Roelvink, 
G., St Martin, K. and Gibson-Graham, J.K. (Eds.) (2015) Making Other Worlds 
Possible: Performing Diverse Economies, Minneapolis: University of 
Minnesota Press, pp.322-48. 
Chakrabarti, Ronika and Mason, Katy (2014) “Designing better markets for people 
at the bottom of the pyramid: bottom-up market design”, Chapter Seven in: 
Geiger, Susi; Harrison, Debbie; Kjellberg, Hans and Mallard, Alexandre (Eds.) 
Concerned Markets: Economic Ordering for Multiple Values, Cheltenham: 
Edward Elgar, pp. 153-77. 
Kallis, Giorgos et al (2018) “Research on Degrowth” Annual Review of Environment 
and Resources, Vol. 43:4, pp 1-26.  https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-
environ-102017-025941  
Lukacs De Pereny Martens, Vajk Miklos (2015) “Three essays on standards, 
governance and structural change in the Peruvian alpaca fibre value chain”, 
A thesis submitted to the University of Manchester for the degree of Doctor 
of Philosophy in the Faculty of Humanities. 
McInroy, Neil (2018) “Wealth for all: Building new local economies”, Local 
Economy, online first  DOI: 10.1177/0269094218803084  
Eikenberry, A. M., & Kluver, J. D. (2004) “The marketization of the nonprofit sector: 
Civil society at risk?” Public Administration Review, Vol. 64(2), pp. 132–140. 
Perez de Mendiguren Castresana, Juan Carlos (2013) “Social enterprise in the 
development agenda. Opening a new road map or just a new vehicle to 
travel the same route?” Social Enterprise Journal, Vol. 9(3) pp. 247-68 DOI 
10.1108/SEJ-07-2012-0021  
Gismondi, Mike et al (Eds.) (2016) Scaling Up: The Convergence of Social Economy 
and Sustainability. Edmonton, Canada: AU Press 

 
 
Pappi-Thornton (2016) “Tackling Heropreneurship: Why we need to move from 
‘the social entrepreneur’ to social impact”, Stanford Social Innovation 
Review, 
online 
Feb 
23rd 
2016 
http://ssir.org/articles/entry/tackling_heropreneurship  
Raworth, Kate (2017) Doughnut Economics: Seven Ways to Think Like a 21st-
Century Economist, London: Random House. 
 
 
 

 
 
Cleaning up the economy: How 
environmental social enterprises 
organise to create sustainable 
business models 
Ellen Stenslie 
Norwegian University of Life Sciences (NMBU), Norway 
 
Abstract 
Environmentally motivated social enterprises sit at the heart of business model 
innovation for sustainability. By putting environmental purpose at their core, they 
provide important knowledge on how the economy can potentially transition onto 
a more sustainable path by organising institutions differently. This paper offer an 
institutional analysis of the SBMs of Environmental Social Enterprises (ESE), with 
an emphasis on how they integrate environmental logic and which barriers they 
face in doing so. The analysis is based on nineteen purposefully sampled 
Environmental Social Enterprises (ESEs) in the United Kingdom and the focus is on; 
core characteristics of ESEs and their business model; how the business model 
integrates environmental purpose; and whether there are barriers and/or trade-
offs in the implementation of heterogeneous institutional logics. Results 
(preliminary) show that ESEs are hybrid organisations innovating for the good of 
the environment and society, reinvesting their financial surplus in their purpose. 
By doing so, they build novel business models for sustainability, delivering broad 
forms of value creation and generating heterogeneous value logics. The 
environmental logic resonates throughout the model, influencing all decision-
making processes and providing internal and external legitimacy. They are firmly 
driven by environmental mission, creating positive externalities in their 
communities and pushing innovative sustainable practices within their sectors. In 
order to maintain financial sustainability and ensure their continued existence, 
they continuously modify their business model to overcome barriers and conflicts 
between different institutional logics and overcome external constraints such as 
lack of funds and government policies. They furthermore provide timely 

 
 
knowledge on organising business institutions with a fundamental commitment 
towards environmental sustainability. 
Keywords 
sustainable business models, social enterprise, institutional logics, sustainability 
entrepreneurship, hybrid organisations. 

 
 
Entrepreneurial Interconnections 
Poverty 
A Developing Country Perspective 
 
Gover Barja Daza 
Universidad Católica Boliviana (UCB) 
gbarja@epc-ucb.edu.bo 
 
Abstract 
Much has been written about how entrepreneurship can contribute to poverty 
alleviation and growth in developing countries, however research doesn’t seem to 
support the claim adding that only high-growth startups and their ecosystems 
seem to have impact on growth. For entrepreneurship to be an effective option 
for the poor it must be worked out at the essence of the ecosystem level, that is, 
the dynamic interconnections among its elements and their evolution over time. 
This short paper introduces a poverty perspective to current entrepreneurial 
ecosystem literature by way of an entrepreneurial interconnections poverty 
measurement in preparation for empirical research. Its purpose is to make visible 
a knowledge gap that is key in a developing country context. 
Keywords 
Economics of entrepreneurship, entrepreneurial ecosystems, multidimensional 
poverty, entrepreneurial interconnections poverty. 
 
 

 
 
Introduction 
The evolving literature on entrepreneurial ecosystems (EE) (Mason & Brown, 
2014; Stam and Spigel, 2016; Borissenko and Boschma, 2017) has as its key insights 
that entrepreneurship (i) is not about entrepreneurs alone but about 
entrepreneurs and their ecosystem; (ii) is not about government policies for 
private sector development but about a self-governing system; (iii) is not about 
individualism and market competition but about network collaboration and 
coordination for the good of all. From these perspective it would be expected that 
the more appropriate and developed the initial conditions of an EE and the higher 
the degree of entrepreneurial innovation achieved, the higher the impact of 
entrepreneurship on development, as has been observed in industrialized 
countries (Szerb et al, 2018). In contrast, in a developing country context, the 
initial conditions of EEs are usually poor (incomplete and disconnected) and the 
degree of innovation is usually very low or non-existent and therefore the impact 
of entrepreneurship on development might be negligible or even negative 
(LaFuente et al, 2018). Similar observations were found earlier by Stam and van 
Stel (2009). 
These two opposite scenarios are not comparable. Most entrepreneurship effort 
in a developing country context34 is intended to diminish a complex problem of 
unemployment, poverty, inequality and exclusion through self-employment and 
low quality entrepreneurship, and by facing context with an entrepreneurial 
attitude given own limited resources and abilities (Tassi et al, 2017). While in an 
industrialized country context, entrepreneurship is generally directed to solve a 
competitive advantage problem (Spigel, 2015). Thus for consistency purposes this 
paper separates the initial conditions of EEs according to country stage of 
development35 or the type of entrepreneurs it tends to produce. 
More generally, entrepreneur types could be classified within a continuum range 
from the lowest to the highest degree of innovation they bring: necessity-based 
Kirznerian36, 
opportunity-based 
Kirznerian, 
sustaining 
innovation-based 
Schumpeterian and disruptive innovation-based Schumpeterian. The difference 
between Kirznerian (alert) and Schumpeterian (creative) entrepreneurs is 
discussed in the economics of entrepreneurship literature (Kirzner, 2008). The 
                                                 
34 Usually individual or household effort based on tight family networks. 
35 This practice is not new, for example GEM uses the concepts of resource-driven, efficiency-driven 
and innovation-driven to describe different levels of development. 
36 Greater innovation comes with greater risk. A potential explanation of why subsistence 
entrepreneurs cannot innovate. 

 
 
concepts of necessity-based and opportunity-based entrepreneurs, at their early 
stage, were introduced by the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor reports since 
2001. The difference between sustaining and disruptive innovation was explained 
by Christensen (1997). Also the essence of an EE is the quality and depth of 
interactions among its elements (entrepreneurs, stakeholder organizations and 
institutions) in many dimensions (Stam and Spigel, 2016). Table 1 show types of 
EEs consistent with the different types of entrepreneurs by motivation and 
development stage37. It is a simplified proposition given that both, entrepreneur 
types and their EEs, can be thought of as in a continuum according to degree of 
innovation and degree of sophistication due to motivation and development 
stage. Nevertheless, Table 1 is an effort to avoid the “high-growth only” EE 
perspective that dominates the EE literature. 
Table 1: Entrepreneurship and ecosystem consistency 
 
Å  Degree of innovation  → 
 
Type of 
Entrepreneur 
Necessity-
based 
Kirznerian 
Opportunity-
based 
Kirznerian 
Sustaining 
innovation-
based 
Schumpeterian 
Disruptive 
innovation-
based 
Schumpeterian 
 
Type of EE 
Minimum    
Kirznerian 
EE 
Optimal       
Kirznerian 
EE 
Minimum 
Schumpeterian 
EE 
Optimal 
Schumpeterian 
EE 
Source: Own. 
Notice the thick dark line that separates the necessity-based and opportunity-
based Kirznerian entrepreneurs and their respective EEs. It is meant to symbolize 
an income poverty line (e.g. US$ 3/day) below which households of necessity-
based entrepreneurs barely survive (also called subsistence entrepreneurs). 
Starting from the left, the minimum Kirznerian EE can be thought of as the 
threshold level for a set of key support interactions in a location38, consistent with 
the income poverty line, such that income poverty is reduced39  for necessity-
                                                 
37 Stam & van Stel (2009) recognize that empirical research needs to account for “much 
heterogeneity in the kinds of entrepreneurs and the kinds of economic contexts in which economic 
growth takes place.” 
38 Location refers to a geographical area: rural town, small city, large city or a metropolitan area. 
39 Entrepreneurship can contribute to reducing multidimensional poverty as will be explained later. 

 
 
based Kirznerian entrepreneurs in that location, in a sustainable40 and resilient 
manner. The optimal Kirznerian EE can be thought as the optimal level for a set of 
key support interactions in a location such that it strengthens the market 
development achieved and promotes its expansion and diversification for 
opportunity-based Kirznerian entrepreneurs in that location. In contrast, the 
minimum Schumpeterian EE would be the threshold level for a set of key support 
interactions in a location such that sustainable competitive advantage is improved 
for sustaining innovation-based Schumpeterian entrepreneurs in that location, 
while the optimal Schumpeterian EE would be the optimal level for a set of 
interactions such that it strengthens innovation capacities and capabilities and 
promotes its expansion and diversification for disruptive innovation-based 
Schumpeterian entrepreneurs. It is important to notice that the set of key 
interactions are interconnected and vary with changing levels of innovations. In all 
four cases the implicit hypothesis is that interactions and their density are the 
main explanatory cause when aligned to the desired effect. The table is also useful 
to understand that developing countries usually participate in the first two 
columns at the same time, with large number of Kirznerian entrepreneurs in the 
first, living below the income poverty line. It also helps to understand that having 
an optimal Kirznerian EE in place is a necessary condition for moving toward to the 
third column where the management of greater risk becomes more important 
(Simons, 2019). 
This short paper attempts to conceptually identify the set of key support 
interactions with an emphasis on the minimum and optimal Kirznerian EE cases, 
which would be the basis for survey questions and data collection in two producer 
markets in the metropolitan city of La Paz, Bolivia. The paper seeks to accomplish 
these objectives by a combination of the multidimensional poverty and the 
entrepreneurial ecosystem approaches as its conceptual guide. 
Entrepreneurial 
interconnections 
poverty: 
A 
mixed 
ecosystem and poverty approach  
The individual is the unit of analysis since the early unidimensional income poverty 
measurement and was maintained into the multidimensional measure of 
poverty41, while aggregation is at the national and subnational level.  Income 
                                                 
40 When economic benefits are not less than the economic costs in four dimensions: Financial, 
social, informational and environmental. 
41 Sometimes the household was used as unit of analysis and frequently consumption expenditure 
was used instead of income. 

 
 
poverty based on the Foster-Greer-Thorbecke (FGT) methodology (Foster et al, 
1984) measures the proportion of poor and how poor they are in reference to a 
poverty line or threshold42. Today’s complement to income poverty is the Global 
Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) by the Oxford Poverty and Human 
Development Initiative (OPHI, 2018), based on the Alkire-Foster (AF) methodology 
(Alkire et al, 2015). The MPI measures (i) the proportion of multidimensional poor 
(incidence) considering deprivation in at least three among 10 indicators in three 
dimensions: Health (nutrition and child mortality), education (years of schooling 
and school attendance) and living standards (cooking fuel, sanitation, drinking 
water, electricity, housing and assets); (ii) how poor they are on average 
(intensity); and (iii) how to reduce the multidimensional poverty index 
(incidence*intensity) by looking at the contribution of each indicator to the index 
through their interaction with the other indicators. 
All poverty dimensions and indicators mentioned above cross, with varying 
degree,  with key dimensions of the EE approach when applied to the context of 
necessity-based Kirznerian entrepreneurs in developing countries: (i) access to a 
reliable source of income to finance minimum household consumption 
expenditure of the poor crosses with entrepreneurship and startup activity as a 
potential source of income, compared to the option of labour income dependent 
on the availability of quality employment43; (ii) access to quality basic health 
services crosses with the minimum health services needs of poor subsistence 
entrepreneurs for the purpose of work; (iii) access to quality basic education 
crosses with the minimum entrepreneurial education needed by poor subsistence 
entrepreneurs; and (iv) general access to infrastructure crosses with the minimum 
infrastructure needs by poor subsistence entrepreneurs (energy, water, ICTs and 
transportation). 
Research at OPHI also recognized missing dimensions in the MPI: quality of work, 
empowerment, physical safety, social connectedness and psychological wellbeing 
(Alkire, 
2007). 
These 
missing 
dimensions 
are 
also 
connected 
with 
entrepreneurship: (i) quality of work crosses with the self-employed and informal 
nature of the massive necessity-based or poor subsistence entrepreneur’s 
characteristic in developing countries; (ii) empowerment crosses with the basic 
entrepreneurial spirit or attitude needed for business development in a complex 
                                                 
42 Minimum standard required by an individual to fulfill his or her basic food and non-food 
needs, expressed in monetary value. 
 
43 This is the main source for the argument that entrepreneurship can help reduce income poverty. 

 
 
context with limited own resources; (iii) physical safety from violence against 
property and person crosses with culturally embedded need for property rights 
and institutions; (iv) social connectedness crosses with entrepreneurial 
interconnections and ecosystem culture. 
A potential criticism to poverty measurement is its ex-post policy character. It is 
highly informative about who is poor, how poor, where they are and their profile 
but it does not really say for example how to increase the income of the poor. That 
is left to policy design experimentation. Poverty measurement has also been 
thought out at the individual level but aggregated at the subnational and national 
levels allowing geographic visualization through poverty maps. In contrast the EE 
approach works at the location level (town, city, metropolitan area), not at the 
individual entrepreneur or the individual firm level, however its literature could 
fall into an ex-post policy character if it concentrates only in describing the profile 
of entrepreneurs, organizations and context of successful EEs. For 
entrepreneurship to be an effective option for the poor it must be worked out at 
the essence of the ecosystem level: the dynamic interconnections among its 
elements and their evolution over time. Following Motoyama and Watkins (2014) 
methodologically an EE should be analysed from the perspective of the 
interconnections among entrepreneurs (E-E), among key support organizations 
(O-O) and between entrepreneurs and those organizations (E-O) within location 
context conditions. This is the reason for an Entrepreneurial Interconnections 
Poverty (EIP) approach proposed here. Those interconnections could follow a 
structure as in networks or not, they can evolve over time, interconnect with other 
EEs and be subject to external influence and shocks. But most importantly the EIP 
approach would be useful ex-ante in policy design by EE actors. The key insight of 
the proposed Entrepreneurial Interconnections Poverty (EIP) approach and its 
potential contribution is that knowledge of context and profiles of individual 
organizations and individual entrepreneurs’ conditions are insufficient for income 
poverty reduction in a location. To reach that objective, it is necessary to develop 
an evolving culture of dynamic interconnections among actors (E-E, O-O, E-O) such 
that a minimum support EE is available for poor subsistence Kirznerian 
entrepreneurs and an optimal support EE is available for opportunity-based 
Kirznerian entrepreneurs. Table 2 presents some further literature review with 
this perspective. 
 
 

 
 
Table 2: Set of key support interactions for the minimum Kirznerian EE 
DIMEN-
SIONS 
INDICATORS 
AUTHOR 
Between               
entrepreneurs 
Community learning & support 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Novice-experienced meetings 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Shared family networks * 
Tassi (2017) 
Mentoring & coaching services 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Dealmaker services 
Mason&Brown (2014); Feldman & 
Zoller (2011) 
Access to a co-working space 
Mitev et al (2018) 
Between support                    organizations 
Frequency of information exchange 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Frequency of joint organization of  events 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Frequency of participation on each other's 
events 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Agreements on self-organization 
Ostrom (1990); Barja (2018) 
Agreements on self-governance 
Ostrom (1990); Barja (2018) 
Agreements on costs sharing 
Ostrom (1990); Barja (2018) 
Dealmakers support for agreements 
Ostrom (1990); Feldman & Zoller 
(2011); Barja (2018) 
Have staff with E experience 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Make lists of local experienced Es 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Get feedback from experienced Es 
  
Build belief, trust & commitment 
Barja (2018) 
Between entrepreneurs & key          
support organizations 
Soft skills training & advice for Es * 
Balcar (2017) 
Hard skills training & advice for Es * 
Balcar (2017) 
Digital skills training & advice for Es * 
Stone (2015) 
Legal and tax assistance & advice for Es 
  
Dealmaker services 
Mason&Brown (2014); Feldman & 
Zoller (2011) 
Business model assistance * 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Establish startup fund & connect 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Establish a co-working place for Es 
Mitev et al (2018) 
Establish a local trade fair for Es 
Gerhard & Peñaloza (2017) 
Build trust, commitment & connections 
Barja (2018) 
Connections outside    
the EE location 
E-E, O-O, E-O events 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Startup weekends 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Regional/international trade fairs 
Gerhard & Peñaloza (2017) 
Input/output networks 
Tassi (2017) 
Mentoring services 
Motoyama & Watkins (2014) 
Dealmaker services 
Mason&Brown (2014); Feldman & 
Zoller (2011) 
Source: Own. 

 
 
The four dimensions express the objective of concentrating in interconnections as 
key guide to selection of their component indicators. Selected indicators must 
capture key interconnections aspects for each dimension and they must be 
expressed in numbers within a well-defined range (determined from survey data). 
The threshold criteria for each indicator is a number representing the minimum 
acceptable value for that indicator (determined from survey data) which must be 
consistent with the income poverty line. A location is poor in a specific indicator if 
its value is below the threshold (incidence). Once Table 2 has been filled, a location 
would be EI poor if it has a large number of indicators below their threshold, 
besides knowing why it is poor by dimensions and indicators, which can visually 
be represented by interconnection maps. The distance of the indicator to its 
threshold value would measure how poor is the EE in that indicator (intensity) and 
the weighted average of normalized distances would allow measures of EIP 
intensity for each dimension. Then a global index of EIP for the EE location could 
be computed by multiplying incidence*intensity. The latter would be useful to 
capture the impact of individual indicator variations on the index in interaction 
with the other indicators. Indicators with a star (*) in Table 2 would probably not 
be necessary for the optimal Kirznerian EE44 case given that the average 
opportunity-based Kirznerians would have the means for technical and/or 
university education and be better prepared to take advantage of the EE in their 
four dimensions, while the average poor necessity-based Kirznerians won’t have 
neither. 
The proposal here has been thought out for one EE location only, however, the 
same idea can be taken at the national and subnational level by a weighted 
aggregation of individual EEs when the objective is to study interconnections 
between EEs and develop national and subnational indexes, as well as 
disaggregation by demographic and context characteristics as control variables. 
Methodological approach for the empirical research 
Implementation of the idea starts with mapping key ecosystem organizations and 
representative necessity-based and opportunity-based entrepreneurs within a 
specific geographically well-defined location, that would be considered an EE. Key 
organizations could be local family firms, microfinance organizations, universities 
and technical institutes, municipal government and other government agencies, 
NGOs and firm services companies, with no regard of economic sector. The next 
step would be to implement questionnaires and interviews for representative 
                                                 
44 It would have other indicators instead. 

 
 
entrepreneurs and key organizations in order to generate the data for the 
suggested indicators presented in Table 245, which could be organized in layers of 
support. 
Table 3 is the actual proposal for the EIP index based on Table 2. The index has 
four dimensions with same weight of ¼ each. Each dimension has own number of 
indicators (questions) with equal weight. Each indicator generates a yes=1, No=0 
answer for every actor interviewed. The poverty cut-off for dimension E-E is any 3 
negatives of 5 indicators. The poverty cut-off for dimension E-A is any 3 negatives 
of 6 indicators. The poverty cut-off for dimension A-A is any 3 negatives of 6 
indicators. The poverty cut-off for dimension A-E is any 2 negatives of 4 indicators. 
The overall EIP cut-off is any 11 negatives among all 4 dimensions and 21 
indicators. Aggregation would allow simple computation of interconnection 
poverty proportions (intensity) by dimensions and overall ecosystem as expected. 
The selection of cut-offs is arbitrary but can be changed to better represent a 
location. 
Two survey questionnaires are currently being developed based on Table 3, one 
for entrepreneurs (dimensions E-E and E-A) and another for stakeholders 
(dimensions A-A and A-E). Some key filters for each case are the following 
questions which would allow building particular sub classifications: 
  
Filters for entrepreneurs 
Filters for stakeholders 
1 
Did you start your business out of 
necessity?46 
Does your organization have interests on 
entrepreneurs in your community? 
2 
How old is your business? 
How old is your organization? 
3 
Which economic sector does your 
business belong to? 
What 
economic 
sectors 
does 
your 
organization work with? 
 
 
 
                                                 
45 Indicators in Table 2 can only be suggestions for a starting list to be corrected by experimentation 
and revision of case studies on practical experiences in developing countries which would also 
inform on potential threshold and optimal values. 
46 This is a key question for separating necessity-based from opportunity-based entrepreneurs, 
which can be further complemented with consumption expenditure questions in order to identify 
those below the poverty line (US$s 3.67/day is used in Bolivia). 

 
 
Table 3: Dimensions, Indicators and Weights of the EIP Index 
Dimensions 
Indicators 
Weights 
 
 
E-E        
(1/4) 
Do you prefer to develop your business either alone or with your family? 
(1/20) 
Do you have a mentor who advices you over your business frequently? 
(1/20) 
When you develop a prototype for a new business idea do you look for 
support from others? 
(1/20) 
Do you have a preferred place to meet with other entrepreneurs to share 
experiences? 
(1/20) 
Did you receive help in connecting with other entrepreneurs in your 
community in the last year? 
(1/20) 
 
 
E-A        
(1/4) 
Did you receive training in soft skills in your community in the last year? 
(1/24) 
Did you receive training in hard skills in your community in the last year? 
(1/24) 
Did you receive help in connecting to organizations with interests on 
entrepreneurs in your community in the last year? 
(1/24) 
Did you receive help from organizations in your community when developing 
a prototype? 
(1/24) 
Did you receive help from organizations in your community when developing 
new market segments? 
(1/24) 
Did you receive help from organizations in your community to verify the 
profitability of your new business ideas? 
(1/24) 
 
 
A-A      
(1/4) 
Did your organization exchange information with other organizations from 
your community about entrepreneurs and their businesses last year? 
(1/24) 
Did your organization contribute to joint events with other organizations in 
your community last year? 
(1/24) 
Does your organization participate in the events of other organizations with 
interests on entrepreneurs in your community? 
(1/24) 
Is your organization part of some network with other organizations with 
interests on entrepreneurs in your community? 
(1/24) 
If your organization is part of some network of organizations, has it defined 
administrative and operational objectives? 
(1/24) 
Did your organization receive help in connecting to other organizations 
interested in entrepreneurs in your community? 
(1/24) 
 
A-E       
(1/4) 
Do key employees of your organization have entrepreneurial experience? 
(1/16) 
Did your organization provide support to local entrepreneurs in the last year? 
(1/16) 
Did your organization receive advice from expert local entrepreneurs? 
(1/16) 
Did your organization receive help in connecting to entrepreneurs of your 
community in the last year? 
(1/16) 
Note: Most questions must have follow up questions for needed completeness.    
Source: Own. 
The surveys will be implemented in two large natural entrepreneurial fairs within 
the metropolitan city of La Paz in Bolivia at one moment in time: Newer “Feria 16 
de Julio” operates two days per week with majority necessity-based Kirznerian 

 
 
entrepreneurs and older and permanent “Feria Huyustus” with majority 
opportunity-based Kirznerian entrepreneurs. Both fairs sell local produce in 
textiles, leather, wood works, metal works, handicrafts, foods and some 
information technologies. Entrepreneurs in commerce will not be taken into 
account. Both fairs also contain entrepreneurs at different stages of development 
as well as established small businesses. All of these characteristics would provide 
rich variation in the data. After detailed mapping of both fairs and support 
organizations around them, and after determining a representative sample and 
size, the survey would be implemented with the help of UCB students. 
Implementation of a pilot survey will be important to correct for clarity of 
questions and to simulate the computations of indicators. 
Discussion and conclusions 
While the multidimensional poverty literature allows thinking in terms of 
multidimensional poverty thresholds or minimums which define when a person is 
poor and by how much, the ecosystem approach allows thinking in terms of 
location multiple dimensions and interconnections among multiple stakeholders. 
This methodological incompatibility has expressed itself in government policy. For 
example, while poverty policy has concentrated in improving general levels of 
health, education and infrastructure, entrepreneurship policy for necessity-based 
and opportunity-based Kirznerian entrepreneurs has concentrated on improving 
entrepreneurial training and microfinance. However, neither developed specific 
policies for promoting interconnections among ecosystem stakeholders within EE 
locations and outside of them. This was generally left to market transactions, 
social policy and trade fairs. However, EEs have self-governance and coordination 
transaction costs characteristics that require them to operate outside the price 
system (Barja, 2018). The EIP measurement approach proposed here for income 
poverty reduction in a location, does it by promoting evolving dynamic 
interconnections among actors such that a minimum Kirznerian EE and an optimal 
Kirznerian EE are achieved by rounds of experimentation. 
Beyond informational purposes, the location EIP measurement can be a useful tool 
for collective action by key EE actors. Also, when computed at national and 
subnational levels with demographic and context disaggregation and 
identification of interconnections among EEs, it can be used for government and 
private sector policy design and action. The perspective that the EIP tool brings is 
based on the implicit hypothesis that it might be a missing piece in poverty policy 
as it empowers local actors for the search of non-market collective action 
solutions. It can contribute to a better understanding of the entrepreneurship-

 
 
poverty relationship and more importantly it can contribute to the effectiveness 
of entrepreneurship in poverty alleviation. However, the EIP approach proposed 
has its own limitations in that it doesn’t measure correlations and less so causality 
among key ecosystem variables. It is also limited to Kirznerian type entrepreneurs 
and their required EEs, thus not considering the very small number but more 
innovative Schumpeterian type entrepreneurs and their required EEs in a 
developing country context. 
References 
Alkire, S., Foster, J., Seth, S., Santos, M.E., Roche, J.M. & Ballon, P. (2015) 
Multidimensional poverty measurement and analysis: The framework. OPHI 
Working paper 83. Available from: https://ophi.org.uk/  
Alkire, S. (2007) The missing dimensions of poverty data: An introduction. OPHI 
Working paper 00. Available from: https://ophi.org.uk/  
Balcar, J. (2017) Is it better to invest in hard or soft skills? The Economic and Labour 
Relations 
Review 
27(4), 
pp. 
453-470. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.researchgate.net  
Barja, G. (2018) Information and coordination bottlenecks to the development of 
entrepreneurial ecosystems in developing countries. In: Dentchev, N., 
Eiselein, P., Diaz Gonzalez, A., Muzho, N., Gechev, R,. and Penchev, P. (eds.) 
3rd International Conference on New Business Models: New business models 
with impact: focused, scalable and international, 27-28 June 2018, Sophia, 
Bulgaria. The University of National and World Economy. pp. ??-??. 
Forthcoming. 
Borissenko, J. & Boschma, R. (2017) A critical review of entrepreneurial 
ecosystems review: Towards a future research agenda. Papers in innovation 
studies 
2017/03. 
CIRCLE, 
Lund 
University. 
Available 
from: 
http://wp.circle.lu.se/upload/CIRCLE/workingpapers/201703_borissenko_e
t_al.pdf  
Bruton, G.D., Ahlstrom, D. & Steven S. (2015) Entrepreneurship, poverty, and Asia: 
Moving beyond subsistence entrepreneurship. Asia Pacific Journal of 
Management 32(1), pp. 1-22. Available from: http://www.researchgate.net   
Christensen, C.M. (1997) The innovator’s dilemma: When new technologies cause 
great firms to fail. Boston, Harvard Business School Press. 
Feldman, M., & Zoller, T.D. (2011). Dealmakers in place: Social capital connections 
in regional entrepreneurial economies. Regional Studies, 46(1), 23-37. 

 
 
Foster, J., Greer, J. & Thorbecke, E. (1984) A class of decomposable poverty 
measures. Econometrica, Vol. 52, No. 3. pp. 761-766. 
Gerhard, F. & Peñaloza, V. (2017) Resilience in trade fairs: A study in Brazilian 
context. 
INTERACOES 
19(4), 
pp. 
855-869. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.researchgate.net  
Lafuente, E., Acs, Z. & Szerb, L. (2018). The entrepreneurship paradox: More 
entrepreneurs are not always good for the economy– The role of the 
entrepreneurial ecosystem on economic performance in Africa. SSRN 
Working Paper Series. Available from: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3307617  
Kirzner, I.M. (2008) The alert and creative entrepreneur: A clarification. INF 
Working Paper No. 760. Available from: https://papers.ssrn.com/  
Mason, C. & Brown, R. (2014) Entrepreneurial ecosystems and growth oriented 
entrepreneurship. Background paper prepared for the workshop organized 
by the OECD LEED Programme and the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs. 
The Hague, Netherlands. Available from: http://www.oecd.org  
Mitev, N., de Vaujani, F-X., Laniray, P., Bohas, A. & Fabbri, J. (2018) Co-working 
spaces, collabotarive practices and entrepreneurship. Forthcoming in: 
Riemer, K. & Schellhammer, S. (eds.) Collaboration in the digital age. 
Springer Verlag. Available from: http://www.researchgate.net  
Motoyama, Y. & Watkins, K.K. (2014). Examining the connections within the 
startup ecosystem: A case study of St. Louis. Kansas City: Kauffman 
Foundation. 
Ostrom, E. (1990) Governing the commons: The evolution of institutions for 
collective action. United Kingdom: Cambridge University Press. 
Oxford 
Poverty 
and 
Human 
Development 
Initiative 
(2018). 
Global 
Multidimensional Poverty Index 2018: The Most Detailed Picture to Date of 
the World’s Poorest People, University of Oxford, UK. 
Simons, B. (2019) Why “leapfrogging” in frontier markets isn’t working. CGD’s 
Study Group March Note. Center for Global Development. Available from: 
https://www.cgdev.org  
Spiegel, B. (2015). The relational organization of entrepreneurial ecosystems. 
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 41(1), 49-72. 
Stam, E. & Spigel, B. (2016) Entrepreneurial ecosystems. Discussion Paper Series 
16-13. 
Koopmans 
Institute, 
Utrecht 
University. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.uu.nl/  

 
 
Stam, E. & van Stel, A. (2009) Types of entrepreneurship and economic growth. 
UNU-MERIT 
Working 
Paper 
Series 
049. 
Available 
from: 
http://collections.unu.edu  
Stone, M. (2015) Building digital skills through training. Journal of Direct Data and 
Digital 
Marketing 
Practice 
16(1), 
pp. 
3-14. 
Available 
from: 
http://www.researchgate.net  
Sutter, C., Bruton, G.D. & Chen, J. (2019) Entrepreneurship as a solution to extreme 
poverty: A review and future research directions. Journal of Business 
Venturing 34, 197-214. Available from: https://www.sciencedirect.com/  
Szerb, L., LaFuente, E., Horvath, K. & Pager, B. (2018) The relevance of quantity 
and quality entrepreneurship for regional performance: the moderating role 
of the entrepreneurial ecosystem. Regional Studies. Available from: 
http://www.researchgate.net  
Tassi, N. (2017). The native world-system: An ethnography of Bolivian Aymara 
traders in the global economy. New York: Oxford University Press. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Entrepreneurship for Sustainable 
Innovation 
Changing the System to the Better 
 
Michael von Kutzschenbach1,*, Claus-Heinrich Daub1 
 
1University of Applied Sciences and Arts Northwestern Switzerland, 
Institute of Management 
 
*michael.vonkutzschenbach@fhnw.ch 
 
Extended abstract 
Growing concerns about overuse of natural resource, environmental degradation 
and social inequality have led to a call for a transition to a more sustainable 
economy and society. Based on the statement of the UN World Commission on 
Environment and Development, Our Common Future (Brundtland, 1987), the idea 
of sustainable development has become mainstream. Elkington (1997) introduced 
the concept of sustainable development in form of a Triple Bottom Line (TBL) 
concept, in which companies are called upon to pursue responsible practices and 
to give equivalence to the ecological, social and economic dimensions in decision-
making. The need for sustainability-oriented innovation is widely acknowledged, 
but experiences and research highlighted that innovation alone is insufficient 
(Adams et al., 2016). In addition to technological advances and new business 
models, effective implementation and transformation are key elements. 
Implementation requires support from an ecosystem of diverse stakeholders. 
Transformation happens through adoption and diffusion mechanisms that are 
sensitive to cultural contexts and local needs. 
In practice and research, sustainable entrepreneurship is seen as a pioneer of the 
transition to a more sustainable economy (Shepherd and Patzelt, 2011; 
Schaltegger and Wagner, 2011; Schaltegger, Beckmann and Hockerts, 2018). 
Tiemann, Fichter and Geier (2018) state that ‘public policy has increasingly 
recognised the importance of entrepreneurship for sustainable economic growth 

 
 
and solving fundamental challenges such as climate change’ (p.83). Sustainable 
entrepreneurship is a relatively new field of research that is currently under 
development (Sarango-Lanlangui, Santos and Hormiga, 2018). Based on a 
systematic overview of the existing literature, Binder and Belz (2015) show that 
sustainable entrepreneurship is an increasing focus in entrepreneurship literature. 
Traditionally, entrepreneurship is seen in terms of economic development. 
Scientific literature understands entrepreneurship as a process in which individual 
actors proactively identify, evaluate and exploit entrepreneurial opportunities and 
transfer them into successful business models (Shane and Venkatamaran, 2000). 
Environmental and social issues are rarely considered at all.  However, a clear 
distinction from other types of entrepreneurship, such as social entrepreneurship, 
is often difficult to make. Furthermore, Bohnsack and DiVito (2019) recognized 
that ‘types of sustainable entrepreneurs are likely to be diverse and nuanced. 
Some want to do good while doing well and others want to do well while doing 
good, which has implications for the performance and longevity of ventures’ 
(p.27). 
We are convinced that both the definition and the role of sustainable 
entrepreneurship need to be sharpened and clearly operationalized. Research is 
needed in order to reveal and define those factors that will allow drawing a 
distinction between “conventional” entrepreneurs and ‘true’ sustainable 
entrepreneurs. In practice, sustainable entrepreneurs often have the desire to 
contribute to a more sustainable world but end-up as ‘conventional’ start-ups. At 
the same time, conventional entrepreneurs might realize in their entrepreneurial 
process that their business outcome contributes to social and environmental well-
being. Based on these considerations we are currently working on setting up a 
research agenda using cases from two on-going FHNW initiatives ‘Swiss Startup 
Challenge’ and ‘Swiss Student Sustainability Challenge’ which will allow us to 
systematically examine conventional start-ups in comparison with sustainable 
entrepreneurship ventures. Both FHNW initiatives have only recently started but 
already include more than 100 cases. This research will contribute to the further 
development of a theory of sustainable entrepreneurship. 
Our research design includes three foci. One is to establish a set of research 
questions to clarify in how far the motivations and objectives of young ventures 
founded in the spirit of contributing to a Sustainable Development differentiate 
from those of start-ups with a rather conventional approach of identifying 
business opportunities without taking care of environmental and social concerns. 

 
 
Doing so, we would like to challenge some of the theoretical assumptions of 
sustainable entrepreneurship claiming ‘that on the individual level sustainable 
entrepreneurs tend to derive their will to act more sustainably from their personal 
values or traits’ (Kraus et al., 2018:p.1). Only if there is to be found a noticeable 
difference, those definitions of sustainable entrepreneurs in literature asserting 
this difference are tenable. Another focus is on the question how incubators as 
the FHNW’s initiatives can support young ventures to make sustainability-oriented 
innovation (SOI) really happen. Changing the system to the better according to 
sustainable development goals (SDG) is only given if the specific needs, 
motivations, and normative background of sustainable entrepreneurs are 
considered appropriately when providing them support, knowledge, and an 
exchange platform. However, research claims that ‘insights on the requirements 
and success factors of implementing effective university support systems for 
sustainable entrepreneurship’ (Tiemann, Fichter and Geier, 2018:p.18) and that 
targeted support for start-ups in ‘green lead markets’ is often missing (Fichter and 
Clausen, 2013). Furthermore, we believe that innovation for impact – a significant 
contribution to the achievement of the SDG – is only possible if the sustainable 
entrepreneurs develop a concrete understanding about the impact of their 
sustainable innovation at the early stage of entrepreneurship. They have to have 
a theory of change/success and are able to learn and optimize their desired 
outcome in terms of its impacts on sustainability. Holt and Littlewood (2015) in 
their research on hybrid organizations state that ‘understanding what positive and 
negative impacts might occur is crucial to achieving value creation to support 
sustainable development and address acute social and environmental problems’ 
(p.122). Hence, the third research focus is on how to visualize, monitor, and 
evaluate the young venture’s impact on sustainability as well as to use this for 
impact optimization (their contribution to the achievement of the SDG).  
The expected results will contribute to the further development of a theory of 
sustainable entrepreneurship, resulting in improved knowledge for improving the 
understanding of the role of sustainable entrepreneurship for systemic change 
towards sustainable development and provides new insights for assessing and 
benchmarking the SDG impact of sustainable entrepreneurship. As we are at the 
beginning of the conceptual design of our research, we are open to collaboration 
on extended data access. 
Keywords 
Sustainable Entrepreneurship, Sustainability-oriented Innovation, Systemic 
Change, Impact Assessment. 

 
 
References 
Adams, R., Jeanrenaud, S., Bessant, J., Denyer, D. & Overy, P. (2016) Sustainability‐
oriented innovation: a systematic review. International Journal of 
Management Reviews. 18 (2), 180-205. 
Binder, J.K. & Belz, F.M. (2015) Sustainable entrepreneurship: what it is. In: Kyrö, 
P. (ed.) Handbook of Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Development 
Research. Cheltenham, Edward Elgar Publishing, pp. 30-75. 
Bohnsack, R. & DiVito, L. (2019) Motivation and entrepreneurial orientation of 
sustainable 
entrepreneurs: 
An 
exploratory 
study 
of 
sustainable 
entrepreneurship archetypes in the fashion industry. In: Lindgreen, A., 
Maon, F., Vallaster, C., Yousafzai, S. and Florencio, B.P. (eds.) Sustainable 
Entrepreneurship: Discovering, Creating and Seizing Opportunities for 
Blended Value Generation. London, Routledge, pp. 24-37. 
Brundtland, G.H. (1987) Report of the World Commission on Environment and 
Development: ‘Our Common Future’. New York, United Nations. 
Elkington, J. (1997) Cannibals with Forks. Oxford: Capstone. 
Fichter, K. & Clausen, J. (2013) Erfolg und Scheitern “grüner” Innovationen. 
Marburg, Metropolis-Verlag. 
Kraus, S., Burtscher, J., Vallaster, C. & Angerer, M. (2018) Sustainable 
Entrepreneurship Orientation: A Reflection on Status-Quo Research on 
Factors Facilitating Responsible Managerial Practices. Sustainability. 10 (2), 
444, 1-21. 
Sarango-Lalangui, P., Santos, J.L.S. & Hormiga, E. (2018) The Development of 
Sustainable Entrepreneurship Research Field. Sustainability. 10 (6), 2005, 1-
19.  
Schaltegger, S. Beckmann, M. & Hockerts, K. (2018) Sustainable entrepreneurship: 
creating environmental solutions in light of planetary boundaries. 
International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing. 10 (1), 1-16. 
Schaltegger, S. & Wagner, M. (2011) Sustainable Entrepreneurship and 
Sustainability Innovation: Categories and Interactions. Business Strategy and 
the Environment. 20 (4), 222-237.  
Shane, S. & Venkatamaran, S. (2000) The Promise of Entrepreneurship as a Field 
of Research. The Academy of Management Review. 25 (1), 217-226.  
Shepherd, D.A. & Patzelt, H. (2011) The New Field of Sustainable 
Entrepreneurship: Studying Entrepreneurial Action Linking “What Is to Be 
Sustained” with “What Is to Be Developed.” Entrepreneurship Theory and 
Practice. 35 (1), 137-163.  

 
 
Tiemann, I., Fichter, K. & Geier, J. (2018) University Support Systems for 
Sustainable Entrepreneurship: Insights from Explorative Case Studies. 
International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing. 10 (1), 83-110.  
 

 
 
Examining the Social Entrepreneurship 
Challenges in Nigeria 
 
Rafiu A. Olaore*, Gboyega O. Oyeleke     
Entrepreneurship Education Directorate, Osun State Polytechnic, 
Iree, Nigeria 
*olaoreakin@yahoo.com 
 
Abstract 
Social entrepreneurship is an innovative social value-creating activity that can take 
place among the non-governmental institutions, not-for-profit organisations, 
business, or government sector. Social entrepreneurs identify a challenging gap in 
society, discover the root causes of the problems and apply their entrepreneurial 
skills to proffer solution. The multi-case study was used to examine the challenges 
facing social entrepreneurs in Nigeria. Findings reveal that social entrepreneurship 
are yet to receive widespread recognition and necessary support from both the 
society and the Nigeria government, so, this has made full extent of its 
contribution inaccessible. Operating social enterprises has peculiar problems and 
is frequently a more complex task than that of operating other businesses. The 
study finally analyses the social enterprise challenges and suggests the best ways 
for the sustainability of social entrepreneurship for the society benefits and the 
well-being of the masses. 
Keywords 
Innovation, Social Entrepreneurship, Social Enterprise, Social Entrepreneur, Social 
Values, Social Mission. 
 
 
 

 
 
Introduction 
Social enterprise is described as an organisation that addresses a social problem 
through business methods (Roundy 2014). According to Global Entrepreneurship 
Monitor report, social entrepreneurship is taking root in both developing and 
developed nations, with more entrepreneurs focusing on doing good – rather than 
solely making a profit. There is a quieter and less-publicized entrepreneurial 
revolution spreading across Africa that involves social entrepreneurs creating 
enterprises to produce social good more so than profits (Mirvis and Googins 2018). 
Social entrepreneurs develop ventures with a mission to solve a pressing social 
problem (Spinelli and Adams 2012), and they also engage in the act of providing 
innovative solution to the society challenges. 
Social enterprises are established with the mission to render social mission and 
the desire for better living. Social entrepreneurship may be defined as ventures 
that address social issues as their prime strategic objective and do so in an 
innovative and creative fashion (Carter and Jones-Evans, 2006). While aiming 
never to compromise social mission, social entrepreneurs will look for alliances 
and sources of resources wherever they may be found most easily (Carter and 
Jones-Evans, 2006). Kwedi, (2014) defined social entrepreneurship as any business 
activity that apply innovative and sustainable strategies to design and develop 
new products fulfilling unsatisfied needs in the society while targeting the masses. 
Social entrepreneurs are those ‘rare breed of leaders’ who search for change, 
respond to it and exploit it as an opportunity to develop new business models for 
the social empowerment (Vasakaria 2008).  
Social entrepreneurs are arguably one of the most hopeful groups of people you 
will ever encounter. Problem solving is hard. Harder still is to solve the underlying 
issues that lead to those problems in the first place. Their ultimate goal is to put 
themselves out of business by creating a world without poverty, with equal access 
to health care and education, gender and racial parity, and a protected, natural 
environment- Haber (2016). 
However, many researchers have argued that the social entrepreneurs exist 
primarily to provide programs and services that are of self-benefit to the masses. 
Whether in a developing economy (Nigeria, India, Cameroon) or in a developed 
country (United States, Europe) the masses would mean the very poor (the 
bottom of the pyramid) or simply the middle-class, respectively (Kwedi 2014). 
Weaver (2018) and Dacanay (2013), stated that social enterprises represent hope 

 
 
in developing countries, where people are suffering from inadequate medical 
services, education, environmental challenges and other basic amenities. Social 
entrepreneurs use their skills not only to create profitable business ventures but 
also to achieve social and environmental goals for society (Scarborough 2013). 
However, as social entrepreneurs are driven by an ethical obligation and desire to 
improve their communities and societies, egoism can drive them to follow 
unethical practices ((Zahra, Gedajlovic, Neubaum, Shulman, 2009). 
The purpose of this research is to examine the challenges being faced by social 
entrepreneurs in Nigeria and their significance impacts on the masses. In the rest 
of this paper, we establish an in-depth understanding of the impacts and 
challenges of social entrepreneurs in Nigeria with a multi-case study. The 
researcher observed that the social entrepreneurs face several challenges in 
developing countries, especially Nigeria, despite its meaningful objectives and 
selfless contribution to the welfare of the masses. In association with previous 
scholars (Weaver, 2018; Dacanay, 2013; Bornstein and Davis, 2010; Sivathanu and 
Bhise, 2013) on the study, we investigate the social entrepreneurs funding, 
institutional support, acceptance from the public, sustainability of the social 
enterprise and other environmental challenges.  Finally, based on the submissions 
of various stakeholders and observations from the society, we suggest various 
options required for sustainability of social enterprise in Nigeria.   
Literature Review 
Mair and Marti (2006) see social entrepreneurship as different from other forms 
of entrepreneurship in the relatively higher priority given to promoting social 
value and development versus capturing economic value. Social value is derived 
from entrepreneurial activities that seek to address problems related to people 
and the planet, regardless of profit orientation (Spinelli and Adams 2012). 
Robinson (2006) defined social entrepreneurship as a process that includes the 
identification of a specific social problem and a solution to manage it; the 
evaluation of the social impact, the business model, and the sustainability of the 
venture; and the creation of a social mission-oriented for profit or a business-
oriented non-profit entity that pursue the double bottom line. Social 
entrepreneurship encompasses the activities and processes undertaken to 
discover, define, and exploit opportunities in order to enhance social wealth by 
creating new ventures or managing existing organisation in an innovative manner     
(Zahra, Gedajlovic, Neubaum, Shulman, 2009).  

 
 
Dees, (1998) summarised the roles play by social entrepreneurs as change agents 
in the social sector by; 
• adopting a mission to create and sustain social value (not just private 
value); 
• recognising and relentlessly pursuing new opportunities to serve that 
mission; 
• engaging in a process of continuous innovation, adaptation and learning; 
• acting boldly without being limited by resources currently in hand; 
• exhibiting a heightened sense of accountability to the constituencies 
served and for the outcomes created. 
Social entrepreneur focuses on a social mission; they may also be quite social in 
the way they carry out their activities, share knowledge, and celebrate their work. 
The motivation of a social entrepreneur is not necessarily profit but a benevolent 
attitude motivated by a deep-seated need to give to others (Galpin and Bell 2010). 
The Schwab foundation for Social Entrepreneurship holds that social enterprise 
models combine business practices and principles with the passion and 
compassion required to create a fair and just world. Social entrepreneurship is 
described as ‘a process involving the innovative use and combination of resources 
to pursue opportunities to catalyse social change and/or address social needs’ 
(Mair and Martí 2006; Montessori 2016). Social entrepreneurs develop important 
innovative solutions for complex societal challenges (Lubberink et al. 2018). As 
also reviewed by ((Vasakaria 2008), social entrepreneurship has changed from 
being a philanthropy to innovative business model. 
In a review of social entrepreneurship, Carter and Jones-Evans (2006) delineated 
social entrepreneurs as those that engage with network activity not only to 
leverage resources and strengthen their own venture but also to deliver impact 
and create new social value. However, social entrepreneurs are expected to set 
out exhaustive plans for capital expenditure and to detail the social outcomes to 
be achieved in the face of very high levels of uncertainty (Dacin, Dacin and Tracey 
2011).  

 
 
Carter and Jones-Evans (2006) presented seven operational areas in which social 
entrepreneurs worked; 
• poverty alleviation through empowerment (e.g. the micro-finance 
movement); 
• healthcare, ranging from small-scale support for the mentally ill ‘in the 
community’ to larger-scale ventures tackling the HIV/AIDS pandemic; 
• education and training, such as widening participation and the 
democratisation of knowledge transfer; 
• environmental preservation and sustainable development, such as ‘green’ 
energy projects; 
• community regeneration, such as housing associations; 
• welfare projects, such as employment for the unemployed or homeless 
and drug and alcohol abuse projects; 
• advocacy and campaigning, such as Fair Trade and human rights 
promotion. 
In a review of social enterprise by Kay and McMullan  (2017), they stated that 
consideration of social value will inevitably involve the commitment of resources, 
and when these are typically limited, investment in social impact assessment is 
foregone. For social entrepreneurs to achieve social value, they need to address 
basic human needs by targeting untapped or market failures, filling gaps through 
partnerships and deploying new business models (Mohampeloa 2017); Seelos and 
Mair, 2005). Moreover, Sivathanu and Bhise, (2013) state that social 
entrepreneurship is not a panacea because it works within the overall social and 
economic framework, but as it starts at the grassroots level it is often overlooked 
and deserves much more attention from academic theorists as well as policy 
makers.  
 
 

 
 
Qualities of Social Entrepreneurs   
Sivathanu and Bhise (2013) suggest the following qualities of social entrepreneurs:  
• Ambitious: Social  entrepreneurs  tackle  major  social  issues,  from  
increasing  the  college  enrollment  rate  of  low income   students  to  
fighting  poverty.  They  operate  in  all  kinds  of  organizations:  innovative  
nonprofits,  social purpose  ventures,  and  hybrid  organizations  that  mix  
elements  of  nonprofit and  for-profit organizations.  
• Mission  driven:  Generating  social  value  —not  wealth—is  the  central  
criterion  of  a  successful  social  entrepreneur. While  wealth  creation  
may  be  part  of  the  process,  it  is  not  an  end  in  itself.  Promoting 
systemic social change is the real objective. 
• Strategic:  Like  business  entrepreneurs,  social  entrepreneurs  see  and  
act  upon  what  others  miss:  opportunities  to improve  systems,  create  
solutions  and  invent  new  approaches  that  create  social  value.  And  
like  the  best  business entrepreneurs,  social  entrepreneurs  are  intensely  
focused  and  hard-driving  in  their  pursuit of  a  social  vision. 
• Resourceful:  Because  social  entrepreneurs  operate  within  a  social  
context  rather  than  the  business  world,  they  have limited  access  to  
capital  and  traditional  market  support  systems.  As  a  result,  social  
entrepreneurs  must  be  skilled  at mobilizing  human,  financial  and  
political resources. 
• Results oriented:  Social entrepreneurs are driven to produce measurable 
returns.  These  results  transform  existing realities,  open  up  new  
pathways  for  the  marginalized  and  disadvantaged,  and  unlock  society‘s  
potential  to  effect social  change.  
 
 

 
 
Methodology 
The multi-case study was used to examine the impacts and challenges facing social 
entrepreneurs in Nigeria. To select cases, information oriented sampling was used 
as diverse cases reveal more information than average or similar cases (Eisenhardt 
and Graebner, 2017). Five founders, fifteen managers and twenty-one employees, 
and thirty-five beneficiaries were considered for face to face interview. The 
qualitative research method was used for in-depth exploration of the study.  
The semi-structured interview guide consists of 50 questions was prepared while 
the case selection was carefully done by conducting pilot study of five social 
enterprises in the South West Region, Nigeria. The interviews were conducted in 
Yoruba language and English, and at times the combination of the two languages, 
as determined by the respondents. The interviews took place between October 
2018 and January 2019. Direct Interviews were conducted throughout the study 
with major stakeholders to establish the challenges being faced by social 
entrepreneurs and the impact on the masses. Data was analysed using thematic 
analysis to examine common patterns and underlying themes (Caringal-Go and 
Hechanova 2018) on social entrepreneurs impacts and challenges. The real names 
of the organisations were not revealed according to an agreement between the 
researchers and the respondents.  
The interview was commenced with the brief overview of the research subject, 
followed by the major objectives of the research and procedures, and then 
discussed the required duration of the interview. The five cases are named A, B, C, 
D, E to represent the selected social enterprises. The researcher captured and 
coded the transcribed interviews, directly written interviews and as well as the 
information from the secondary sources. 
Findings and Discussion 
The findings of this study provide evidence that social entrepreneurs face lots of 
challenges in the delivery of their social mission. The study observed that there is 
less recognition to the social entrepreneurs’ activities in the society, low 
participation from stakeholders, inadequate internal funding, lack of grants from 
external bodies (government), an informal operation of the social enterprise, 
economic policies among others. 

 
 
In addition to the above findings, we also observed the following challenges from 
the respondents; 
• People’s perception about the social entrepreneurs; the belief 
• Ineffective communication between the social entrepreneurs and the 
target beneficiaries. 
• Insufficient support from other business sectors. 
• Lack of adequate research and development to foster.  
• Mismanagement of fund donated for the provision of social value. 
• Improper organisation of the social entrepreneurship sector. 
• Lack of strong entrepreneurial orientation among the social enterprises. 
The study provides evidence that masses need support from social entrepreneurs 
to ameliorate their standard of living especially in the areas of education, health, 
infrastructural amenities (electricity, water supply, good road, technological 
development) and aids to innovative ideas. The result from this study is similar to 
the work of Sivathanu and Bhise, (2013). 
According to one of the founders, social enterprise is easier to establish but hard 
to sustain especially in developing countries, because of difficulties in attracting 
donors. In another founder opinion, some people believe in investing their money 
on profitable businesses than putting their money in non -profit organization. 
Furthermore, few beneficiaries claimed that it took them many efforts to get 
assistance from social enterprise and mostly the social entrepreneurs’ 
contributions are very limited.  
Conclusion 
This study confirms the belief that social entrepreneur faces challenges in the 
delivery of social mission. It also establishes the notion that social enterprise has 
significant impacts on the masses in the provision of social values. In this research, 
we analyse the stimulating situations surrounding the operation of social 
enterprise and its possible significance to the society. However, we believe that 

 
 
the outcome of this study will generate basis of expansion of new research in the 
field of social entrepreneurship in Nigeria. The Government intervention is highly 
important to the sustainability of social enterprises. According to Mohampeloa 
(2017), core sustainability drivers focus on ensuring that there is a sense of agency, 
availability of resources, a consciously created awareness, a sustainable approach 
and the crafts of practice to act in the service of a more environmentally 
sustainable and socially just world. There is the need to pass legislation to give 
legal recognition to social business and establish a regulatory agency to ensure 
transparency, integrity, and honesty in this sector (Yunus and Weber 2010).  
References 
Bornstein D. & Davis S. (2010) Social Entrepreneurship: What Everyone Need to 
Know, USA, Oxford University Press. 
Carter, S. & Jones-Evans, D. (2006) Enterprise and Small Business: Principles, 
Practice and Policy. 2nd ed. England, Prentice Hall. 
Caringal-Go, J. F.  & Hechanova, R. M.  (2018) Motivational Needs and Intent to 
Stay of Social Enterprise Workers. Journal of Social Entrepreneurship. 9(3), 
200-214, DOI: 10.1080/19420676.2018.1468352 
Dacin, M. T., Dacin, P. A. & Tracey, P. (2011) Social Entrepreneurship: A critique 
and Future Directions. Organisation Science.  22(5), 1203-1213 
Dees, G. (1998) The meaning of social entrepreneurship. Retrieved May 10 2019.  
https://entrepreneurship.duke.edu/news-item/the-meaning-of-social-
entrepreneurship/ 
Dacanay, M. 
L. (2013) 
Social 
Enterprises and 
the 
Poor: 
Transforming 
Wealth. Quezon City, Institute for Social Entrepreneurship in Asia. 
Galpin, T. J. & Bell, R. G. (2010) Social Entrepreneurship and the L3c Structure: 
Bridging the Gap between Non-Profit and For-Profit Ventures. Journal of 
Business and Entrepreneurship. 22(2), 29-47. 
Haber, J. (2016) The Business of Good: Social Entrepreneurship and The New 
Bottom Line: Entrepreneur press, Eliot house productions 
Kay, 
A. 
& 
McMullan, 
L. 
(2017) 
Contemporary Challenges Facing Social 
Enterprises and 
Community 
Organisations 
Seeking 
to 
Understand 
Their Social Value. Social and Environmental Accountability Journal. 37(1), 
59-65. 
Kwedi,  M. N. (2014) Social Entrepreneurship: The Secret to Starting A Business 
Worth Living. 1st ed. CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform. 

 
 
Lubberink  R.,  Blok  V.,  Ophemb., J.,  Veldea, G. & Omta, O. (2018) Innovation for 
Society: Towards a Typology of Developing Innovations by Social 
Entrepreneurs. Journal of Social Entrepreneurship. 9(1), 52–78. DOI: 
10.1080/19420676.2017.1410212 
Mair J. & Marti, I. (2006) Social Entrepreneurship Research: A Source of 
Explanation, Prediction, and Delight, Journal of World Business, Vol 41, (1), 
36-44 
Mirvis, P. & Googins, B. (2018) Catalyzing Social Entrepreneurship in Africa: Roles 
for Western Universities, NGOs and Corporations, Africa Journal of 
Management, 4(1), 57-83 
Mohampeloa T. M. (2017) Developing an Entrepreneurial Mindset within 
the Social Sector: A Review of the South African Context.  African Journal of 
Science, Technology, Innovation and Development.  9(5), 645-652 
Montessori, N. M. (2016) A theoretical and methodological approach to social 
entrepreneurship as world-making and emancipation: social change as a 
projection in space and time. Entrepreneurship & Regional Development. 
28(7), 536-562 
Robinson, J. (2006) Navigating Social and Institutional Barriers to Markets: How 
Entrepreneurs identify and Evaluate Opportunities, London, Palgrave 
Macmillan. 
Roundy, P. T. (2014) The Tactics and Evolution of Social Entrepreneurial 
Storytelling, Journal of Business and Entrepreneurship. 26(2), 117-152 
Scarborough, N. M. (2013) Essential of Entrepreneurship and Small Business 
Management, 6th ed. England, Pearson Education Ltd. 
Seelos C. & Mair, J. (2005) Social Entrepreneurship Creating New Business Models 
to Serve the Poor, Business Horizons, 48(3), 241-246. 
Sivathanu B. & Bhise P. V. (2013) Challenges for Social Entrepreneurship. 
International Journal of Application or Innovation in Engineering & 
Management, Special Issue for National Conference on Recent Advances in 
Technology and Management for Integrated Growth (RATMIG 2013) 
Spinelli S., & Adams, R. (2012) New Venture Creation: Entrepreneurship for the 21st 
Century, 9th ed. New York, McGraw-Hill. 
The Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, (2019) Entrepreneurs Worldwide Turn Their 
Focus 
Towards 
Doing 
Good. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.gemconsortium.org/about/news/34 
(Assessed 
on 
25th 
January 2019). 
The Schwab foundation for Social Entrepreneurship. Available from: 
www,schwabfound.org. (Assessed on 26/01/2019) 

 
 
Vasakarla, V. (2008) A Study on Social Entrepreneurship and the Characteristics of 
Social Entrepreneurs. The Icfaian Journal of Management Research. 7(4), 32-
41 
Weaver, R. L.  (2018) Re-Conceptualizing Social Value: Applying the Capability 
Approach in Social Enterprise Research, Journal of Social Entrepreneurship. 
9(2), 79-93 
Yunus, M. & Weber, K. (2010) Building Social Business: A new Kind of Capitalism 
That Serves Humanity ‘s Most Pressing Needs. New York: Publication Affairs.  
Zahra, S. A., Gedajlovic, E., Neubaum, D. O., Shulman, J. M. (2009). A Typology of 
Social Entrepreneurs: Motives, Search Processes and Ethical Challenges, 
Journal of Business Venturing,, 24, 519-532 

 
 
Financing Social Entrepreneurship 
Franchising Approach 
 
Sandra Marnoto1,2,3*, João M. S. Carvalho1,2,4, Célio A. A. Sousa1,2 
1University Institute of Maia; 2UNICES.ISMAI; 3INESC.TEC.UP; 
4CICS.NOVA.UMinho 
* smarnoto@ismai.pt 
 
Extended abstract  
Social organizations mainly cope with social problems that the markets and the 
states have trouble or even fail to solve and, therefore, social entrepreneurs have 
been emerging in different locations throughout the world (OECD, 2010). Instead 
of being driven by financial returns, social organizations are focused on creating 
social and/or cultural values and they are not moved by its appropriation 
(European Commission, 2013). Regardless of its non-profitable nature, a social 
enterprise needs to be financially sustainable, if it is to reach its social goals. 
However, it is well acknowledged that social organizations struggle to be 
financially independent through income generation (Zafareiropoulou & 
Koufopoulos, 2012). As an example, in a recent survey performed to NGO’s 
operating in Portugal (Project Entrance, 2018), social entrepreneurs have 
identified financing, as among the most critical problems they have to face. 
Therefore, social entrepreneurs must look for ingenious ways to solve their 
financial constraints. In this framework, social franchising has emerged as a 
strategy to overcome this problem. Moreover, franchising has also been adopted 
by non-profit organizations as a strategy for growth (Meuter, 2008). The alliance 
in a network of small social organizations allows them to gather the advantages of 
big organizations namely in terms of access to capital sources and rapid growth 
(Zafareiropoulou and Koufopoulos, 2012). However, in spite of the apparent 
auspicious solution it presents to social entrepreneurship, the franchising 
arrangements have been showing high failure rates in the social sector (Meuter, 
2008). 

 
 
Social franchising has been defined by the German Foundation for World 
Population as: ‘’[…] a process by which the developer of a successfully tested social 
concept, the franchisor, in order to scale up the coverage of a target group and the 
quality of product (service) enables others, the franchisees, to replicate the model 
using the tested system, using the brand name, in return for social results, system 
development and impact information’’ (Meuter, 2008). In sum, to reach their 
social aims, social enterprises run social franchising networks and organizations 
following commercial franchising principles (Sivakumar & Choormans, 2011). As a 
result, the adequacy of the strategies used by the commercial franchising 
companies by the social franchising networks must be questioned, as there are 
considerable dissimilarities between the two sectors (Meuter, 2008). 
Sivakumar and Choormans (2011) identify a few important differences. First of all, 
and the most obvious, is the fact that whereas commercial franchising focus on 
profitability, social franchising emphasizes the social impact of the organization’s 
activities (Tracey & Jarvis, 2007). Second, there is a crucial difference regarding the 
type and level of risk sharing by a social and by a commercial franchisee. It is a 
social instead of an economic contract that runs the relationship between the 
social franchisor and its franchisees which seems to lead to a lower probability of 
social franchisees’ adhering to the contracts (Lonnroth et al., 2007). In addition, 
consumers, which are in fact beneficiaries, may many times not be able to pay for 
the products or services and, therefore, donors (Tracey & Jarvis, 2007) are a very 
important third party in what is usually a dual relationship. These significant 
contrasts suggest the need to adapt the franchising strategy in a contingent 
fashion (Meuter, 2008) and that adjustment might be especially important in 
those strategies concerning the selection of franchisees (Sivakumar & Choormans, 
2011) and the control and supervision of operations and results. 
In the traditional franchising literature, an important advantage of franchising is 
that is works as a mechanism that aligns the incentives of the trademark owner 
and the managers of the units. However, in social franchising, that compatibility 
of incentives may not emerge spontaneously in the relationship, since social 
problems dominate the economic issues. The empirical literature on social 
franchising mostly covers cases where the beneficiaries of the social projects are 
parties outside the franchise relationship. This work analysis the possibility that 
the internalization of the beneficiary in to the franchise relationship might allow 
the realignment of incentives between the franchisor and the franchisee. In this 
framework, we intend to examine (a) the differences between the projects in 
which the beneficiary has an active role in franchising relationship (i.e., it is the 

 
 
franchisee) and the projects in which it has a passive role (as employee or 
consumer of a service) (b) the outcome of these differences in the alignment of 
incentives between the parties in the relationship and (c) the resulting impact in 
the survival/failure of the social enterprise. 
Keywords 
Social franchising, social entrepreneurship, social organization financing.  
References 
European Commission (2013) Guide to Social Innovation. Brussels: European 
Commission. 
Meuter, J. (2008) Social Franchising. Available from: https://www.berlin-insti- 
tut.org/fileadmin/user_upload/handbuch_texte/pdf_Meuter_Social_Fran- 
chising.pdf 
OECD (2010) SMEs, Entrepreneurship and Innovation. OECD 2010. Chapter 5. So- 
cial Entrepreneurship and Social Innovation. Available from: http://ec.eu- 
ropa.eu/internal_market/social_business/docs/conference/oecd_en.pdf 
Project Entrance (2018) Engaged Research Connecting Community with Higher Ed- 
ucation. Erasmus+KA2. Partners: Vrije Universiteit Brussel (Belgium); Univer- 
sity Institute of Maia and Polytechnic Institute of Maia (Portugal); Wa- 
geningen University (Holland); University Vechta (Germany); Vilniaus Tech- 
nologiju ir Dizaino Kolegija (Lithuania); and Lahti University of Applied Sci- 
ences (Finland). 
Sivakumar, A. & Schoormans, J. P. L. (2011) Franchisee Selection for Social Fran- 
chising Success. Journal of Nonprofit & Public Sector Marketing, 23, 213– 
225. DOI: 10.1080/10495142.2011.586860 
Zafeiropoulou, F. A. & Koufopoulos, D. N. (2013) The Influence of Relational Em- 
beddedness on the Formation and Performance of Social Franchising. Jour- 
nal 
of 
Marketing 
Channels, 
20 
(1-2), 
73-98. 
DOI: 
10.1080/1046669X.2013.747861 
 
 
 

 
 
Redefining value(s) to understand 
social enterprises’ business models 
Adélie RANVILLE1,* 
 
1Grenoble Ecole de Management 
 
*adelie.ranville@grenoble-em.com 
 
Abstract  
Through the exploration of value theories, this conceptual papers aim at proposing 
conceptualizations of ‘value’ that could serve as a basis to theorize social business 
models. Preliminary conclusions suggest that we should separate monetary value, 
use value and social value. 
Keywords 
Value theory, social business model, social enterprise,  
Main text  
Introduction 
How can we describe adequately the business models of social enterprises? 
Business model theory propose a clear approach to explain how companies create 
value and survive in competitive environment. Students of social enterprises tend 
to rely on traditional business model frameworks to describe social business 
models (see for example: Margiono, Zolin, & Chang, 2017; Spieth, Schneider, 
Clauß, & Eichenberg, 2018; Yunus, Moingeon, & Lehmann-Ortega, 2010). 
However, they do not justify the theoretical adequacy of such transposition, while 
for-profit companies and social enterprises are unlikely to have the same success 
drivers. The goal of this paper is to draft more solid theoretical foundations for 
social business models. On the theoretical side, this task is important to find how 
activity configurations lead to success or failure of social enterprise. On the 
practical side, a valid theory of social business model will help identify important 

 
 
factors and build relevant tools and frameworks to help social entrepreneurs 
model their activity. 
To define possible theoretical foundations for social business models, I explore the 
concept of value. Indeed, the concept of value is central in business model 
theories, but the ‘value’ that is created by classical businesses may not be the 
same as the ‘social value’ that social enterprises aim to create. Thus, if we want to 
explain the different value creation mechanisms in the case of social enterprise, 
we need to define more precisely what ‘value’ means in that case. The question 
addressed by this paper is then: How value is theorized in traditional business 
theory? And how can we adapt these concepts to the case of social business 
models? 
To answer this question, I explore the theoretical foundations of seminal papers 
on business model (by going back to the references they cite). Then I discuss their 
relevance for social business model, in comparison with existing work on social 
business model. The paper is organized as following: first, I briefly review the 
literature on social enterprises and business model theory. Then I show that what 
tend to be quite indistinctively called “value” in traditional business model 
literature covers in fact many concepts like: use value, willingness to pay, 
revenues, margin, profits… that can be sorted into use value and monetary value. 
Then I discuss the concept of “social value” emerging in the social business model 
literature. I conclude that a social business theory should account for these three 
type of value : monetary value, use value and social value. 
Social enterprises and business model theory 
Social enterprises (SE) are organizations pursuing both social goal and economic 
activities. The economic dimension is defined by the EMES network through a 
bundle of indicators like the production of good/service, a high autonomy, the 
existence of economic risk taken by the organization and the presence of paid 
workers (Defourny & Nyssens, 2010, p. 43). Concerning the social dimension, it 
can be related to the specific need addressed; the relation between actors, the 
population targeted or to general values that the organization defends (Defourny 
& Nyssens, 2017). A recent stream of research is trying to identify which kind of 
business models social ventures can adopt to fulfil their social mission (Margiono, 
Zolin & Chang, 2017; Mair & Schoen, 2007; Woolley, Bruno & Carlson, 2013). 
Scholars define a business model as the description and combination of resources 
and activities used by an organization to create, deliver, and capture value (Amit 
& Zott, 2001; Casadesus-Masanell & Ricart, 2010; Demil & Lecocq, 2010; Zott, Amit 

 
 
& Massa, 2011). Three main elements constitute a business model (Osterwalder 
& Pigneur, 2010): the value proposition (product/service offering, customer 
segments, customer relationships), value creation (activities, resources, partners, 
distribution channels) and value capture (revenue/cost model). The contributions 
on social business model usually rely on these frameworks. However, several 
problems rise when we examine the fit between the activities of social enterprise 
and the business model framework.  
First, the objective of a classic business model is to creates value for the parties 
involved and generates profit for the focal firm (Zott & Amit, 2010). However, the 
absence of the profit motives is usually cited as a core difference between social 
and classical enterprises, even if this difference can be seen as a continuum rather 
than strict categories (Peredo & McLean, 2006). Secondly, in the case of social 
enterprises, those who pay are not necessarily those who receive the good or 
services (the payer or client is not always the target beneficiaries). Social business 
models are thus likely to be multi-sided business models and novel cognitive 
frames may be needed to understand these complex business models (Baden-
Fuller & Mangematin, 2013). The third difficulty, that I try to adress in this paper, 
is to conceptualize adequately the notion of value for social business model. The 
concept of value is central in the literature on social business models (as in the 
classical literature). Questions such as the characterisation of value proposition, 
social value propositions, value creation or value capture are crucial to describe 
business models. Below, I explore the conceptualisation of value related to the 
notions of value proposition, value capture and social value. 
From value proposition to use value 
The notion of value proposition can be related to the one of use value. In this 
section, I explore the concept of use value, which on subjective judgements such 
as utility, perceived utility, and pro-social preferences. 
Utility 
In the philosophical tradition, utilitarian define utility as happiness, pleasure or the 
satisfaction of informed preferences. Informed (or rational) preferences are the 
preferences someone would have if she had all the information concerning the 
consequences of her actions, and if these preferences were not restrained by any 
beliefs that could lead to self-censorship (Kymlicka, 2002). Utility can stem from 
any experience someone wants to accomplish.  
Perceived utility or perceived use value 

 
 
Perceived utility is “the consumer's overall assessment of the utility of a product 
based on perceptions of what is received and what is given” (Zeithaml, 1988:p.12). 
The concept of perceived utility is close to the definition of value proposition in 
business model theory. Osterwalder define value proposition as a mix of element 
catering customer’s needs (Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2010), it represents value for 
a specific target customers (Osterwalder, 2004). More precisely he cites Kambil for 
who customer value is “the difference between perceived benefits (the extent to 
which a product or service fulfills or  exceeds  customers  needs)  and  perceived  
costs  (the  full  costs  associated  with  the  product or service)” (Kambil, 
1996:p.10).  
Making the distinction between utility and perceived utility is usefull to 
understand what social enterprises are doing. For some social enterprises, what 
beneficiaries want is not necessarily what is good for them (Ansari, Munir & Gregg, 
2012; Lumpkin et al., 2013). The goal of a social enterprise can be to change the 
perceived value of the beneficiaries concerning a product.  
Pro-social preferences 
Social enterprise business models are likely to rely at least partially on pro-social 
behaviour and stakeholders intentions to benefit society: some donators will 
provide money, some consumers will accept to pay a premium; the social 
entrepreneur will take the risk of starting an activity that may not be sustainable… 
Many mechanisms can explain why people judge valuable enact such pro-social 
behaviours. First, donators or volunteer can experience direct personal utility from 
their participation to a social enterprise such as acquiring new skills, create new 
social relationships, gain prestige or reputation. Secondly, people conducting pro-
social behaviour can just feel good about helping others. Charitable help is indeed 
linked to well-being and happiness (Post, 2005), the “warm glow effect” in 
economic theories (Graff Zivin & Small, 2005:p.3). People can also behave in a 
certain way to respect social norms. 
From value capture to money 
Money 
For Bowman and Ambrosini, value capture consist in capturing exchange value 
(Bowman & Ambrosini, 2000). On the other hand, concerning strategic network 
theory, Jarillo define value added as margin: “when  business  people  talk  of 
activities with  more  or less value added, they are actually referring  to activities  
with better  or  worse  margins” (Jarillo, 1995:p.32). This definition is different but 

 
 
there is still the idea of generating exchange value that will lead to better margins 
and profit, in the form of money. Monetary value or prices are not necessary 
related to the usefulness of a product. Adam Smith explains this with the 
diamond–water paradox. Water have a great value in use but a low value in 
exchanges, on the contrary, the diamond has a low use value but is can be used to 
get great quantity of other goods in exchange for it (Smith, 1817).  
Willingness to pay 
Perceived use value is sometime translated into monetary terms (Bowman & 
Ambrosini, 2000) through willingness to pay. This definition of value using 
monetary proxies is used in the business model literature. In their seminal paper, 
Amit and Zott, citing Porter, define value as ‘the amount buyers are willing to pay 
for what a ﬁrm provides them. Value is measured by total revenue… A ﬁrm is 
profitable if the value it commands exceeds the costs involved in creating the 
product’ (Porter, cited by Amit & Zott, 2001:p.496). Amalgamate perceived utility 
and willingness to pay can be misleading in the case of social enterprises because 
the targets are sometime are sometime disadvantaged population who can be 
unable to pay even if they value the product (Santos, Pache & Birkholz, 2015). In 
that case the willingness to pay, or actual purchase behaviour do not always equals 
the perceived utility.  
Social value 
In this section, we review the definitions of ‘social value’ in the literature on social 
enterprise and discuss how it could be conceptualized in social business model. 
Social value in social enterprise literature 
Authors who study social business models tend to as the idea of social value 
named social profit (Yunus, Moingeon & Lehmann-Ortega, 2010), mission (Mair & 
Schoen, 2007; Margiono, Zolin & Chang, 2017; Vial, 2016; Woolley, Bruno & 
Carlson, 2013) or social value (Hlady‐Rispal & Servantie, 2018; Sparviero, 2019). 
The idea of social value or social mission is a recurring idea in the literature on 
social enterprise, however it is difficult to define what is ‘social’ and what is not. 
Various definitions co-exist within the literature. Michelini and Fiorentino use 
business models and refer to Porter and Kramer’s idea of shared value (Michelini 
& Fiorentino, 2012). In their “big idea” of creating ‘shard value’, Porter and Kramer 
define shared value as “practices that enhance the competitiveness of a company 
while simultaneously advancing the economic and social conditions of the 
communities in which they operates”, and value is defined “as benefits relative to 
costs” (Porter & Kramer, 2019). Spieth et al.  identified empirically “three 

 
 
categories of social missions: Enhancing the availability and accessibility of 
resources, supporting people with disadvantages, and achieving fairness.”(Spieth 
et al., 2018:p.5). Defourny and Nyssen note that an enterprise may be qualiﬁed as 
social because of the nature of the goods or services they provide (health, 
education…), because they pay attention to disadvantaged social groups or aim at 
promoting broader societal values like economic democracy or sustainability 
(Defourny & Nyssens, 2017:p.18). Several authors mention the potential 
contribution of social enterprises to the Millennium Development Goals (Seelos & 
Mair, 2005; Vial, 2016; Woolley, Bruno & Carlson, 2013). Other authors make 
some more technical attempts to describe the mission of SE such as addressing 
neglected problems with positive externalities (Santos, 2012) or solve market 
failures (Austin, Stevenson & Wei-Skillern, 2006). As Santos note, the definition of 
the ‘social’ is either tautologic or normative (Santos, 2012) because it would 
necessitate to define what is a ‘social’ need and who deserve ‘social’ help. Santos’s 
‘positive theory’ is that the domain of social entrepreneurship are neglected 
positive externalities. However, we cannot escape normativity: when we qualify 
an externality as positive or negative we implicitly rely on moral criteria (Claassen, 
2016). Economic theories are rooted in utilitarian philosophy and Santos’s 
perspective too, as he rely explicitly on them and define social welfare as the 
aggregation of utilities (Santos, 2012). Even if a normative discussion concerning 
social enterprise may be usefull, we will try to avoid normativity in the framework 
we are building. 
Social value as social expectations 
How to escape subjectivity and normativity in the definition of social value? We 
believe that an exit door for this dilemma might be to describe the normative 
reasoning of actors themselves rather than trying to find an objective definition. 
For example, in her research about price determination in a fair trade 
organization, Reinecke distinguish subjective value and the social process of 
valuation (Reinecke, 2010). Social value would correspond to this social process. 
The concept of utility is powerful because it does not imply to define substantively 
what each people desire. Similarly, the concept of social value could be a black box 
representing what people evaluate collectively as valuable for society. The 
empirical definitions of what is ‘social value’ can thus be diverse and could be 
described using various theories such as economics of convention (Boltanski & 
Thévenot, 1991), descriptive ethics, institutional theory... 
 
 

 
 
Propositions  
After this review, we propose to keep three main construct to study social business 
model : money, utility and social value. I will not enter the debate about the nature 
of money and will simply define it as an item accepted as payment. I define utility 
according to the philosophical perspective as the satisfaction of subjective 
preferences. These preferences can concern a personal benefit (use of goods and 
services, money, reputation…), or include benefits for others through pro-social 
preferences (helping others, reduce inequality…).Then, I define social value as a 
collective perception of the fairness of the social business model outcomes. As this 
perception may depend on the goal of the social enterprise and on the definition 
of fairness used, I leave voluntarily a relativist criteria to evaluate social value. 
Type of 
value 
Definition 
Evaluation 
before 
relationship 
Evaluation 
after 
relationship 
Money 
Item accepted as 
payment 
Ideal 
price 
or 
willingness to pay 
Payed price 
Use 
value 
Satisfaction 
of 
personal 
or 
pro-
social preferences 
Perceived value 
Satisfaction 
Social 
value 
Improvement 
of 
fairness 
within 
society 
Judgement 
concerning 
the 
fairness of a state of 
the world 
Evaluation 
according 
of 
the 
business 
model 
according 
to 
fairness criteria 
Table 1 – Three types of value 
 
I argue that we need these different types of value because they are not 
necessarily commensurable with each other. The link between money and use 
value is easily made in the context of trade and the exchange of commodities. 
However, social enterprises may partially evolve in non-market environment. They 
may create use value that do not find a monetary counterpart when beneficiaries 
are unable to pay, and receive monetary income that do not correspond to the 
sale of commodities. The resources they manipulate does not necessarily go 

 
 
through money and market exchanges. Then, we need to be able to describe these 
resources for themselves as use value. Volunteering may be seen as relationship 
generating use value of different types for the volunteer (social relationships, 
recognition...) and the organization (labor helping to achieve the organization's 
goal). On another hand, producing social value, attaining a more desirable state of 
the world, may include the production of use value or the use of money, but is not 
limited to this. For example, decreasing inequalities imply generating use value for 
the disadvantaged population but the measurement of the satisfaction of their 
needs tells nothing about the reduction of inequalities. 
Furthermore these three type of value may correspond to three different types of 
forces in social enterprise environment : generating monetary may be necessary 
to survive in a market environment, the generation of use value imply that the 
activity is in adequacy with stakeholders' needs, and the production of social value 
may interact with institutional pressures. 
Crafting a theory of value for social business models is an ambitious task and I only 
drafted a few propositions that need to be refined and tested empirically. I also 
did not discuss the question of "value creation" and the value of labour and 
resources (especially natural ones) that may be employed in this process. I choose 
a quite agnostic definition of "social value", however, it would be worth exploring 
more precisely the different types of social goals that social enterprises have in 
order to define which social business model fits which goal.  
References 
Amit, R. & Zott, C. (2001) Value creation in E-business. Strategic Management 
Journal. [Online] 22 (6–7), 493–520. Available from: doi:10.1002/smj.187. 
Ansari, S., Munir, K. & Gregg, T. (2012) Impact at the ‘Bottom of the Pyramid’: The 
Role of Social Capital in Capability Development and Community 
Empowerment. Journal of Management Studies. 49 (4), 813–842. 
Austin, J., Stevenson, H. & Wei-Skillern, J. (2006) Social and Commercial 
Entrepreneurship: Same, Different, or Both? Entrepreneurship Theory and 
Practice. [Online] 30 (1), 1–22. Available from: doi:10.1111/j.1540-
6520.2006.00107.x. 
Baden-Fuller, C. & Mangematin, V. (2013) Business models: A challenging agenda. 
Strategic Organization. 11 (4), 418–427. 
Boltanski, L. & Thévenot, L. (1991) De la justification. Les économies de la 
grandeur. 1, 87. 

 
 
Bowman, C. & Ambrosini, V. (2000) Value Creation Versus Value Capture: Towards 
a Coherent Definition of Value in Strategy. British Journal of Management. 
[Online] 11 (1), 1–15. Available from: doi:10.1111/1467-8551.00147. 
Casadesus-Masanell, R. & Ricart, J.E. (2010) From strategy to business models and 
to tactics. Long range planning. 43 (2–3), 195–215. 
Claassen, R. (2016) Externalities as a basis for regulation: a philosophical view. 
Journal of Institutional Economics. [Online] 12 (03), 541–563. Available from: 
doi:10.1017/S1744137415000491. 
Defourny, J. & Nyssens, M. (2017) Fundamentals for an International Typology of 
Social Enterprise Models. VOLUNTAS: International Journal of Voluntary and 
Nonprofit Organizations. [Online] 28 (6), 2469–2497. Available from: 
doi:10.1007/s11266-017-9884-7. 
Demil, B. & Lecocq, X. (2010) Business model evolution: in search of dynamic 
consistency. Long range planning. 43 (2–3), 227–246. 
Diaz-Bone, R. (2018) Economics of Convention and its Perspective on Knowledge 
and Institutions. In: Johannes Glückler, Roy Suddaby, & Regina Lenz (eds.). 
Knowledge and Institutions. [Online]. Cham, Springer International 
Publishing. pp. 69–88. Available from: doi:10.1007/978-3-319-75328-7_4 
[Accessed: 5 February 2019]. 
Graff Zivin, J. & Small, A. (2005) A Modigliani-Miller Theory of Altruistic Corporate 
Social Responsibility. The B.E. Journal of Economic Analysis & Policy. [Online] 
5 (1). Available from: doi:10.1515/1538-0653.1369 [Accessed: 13 February 
2019]. 
Hlady‐Rispal, M. & Servantie, V. (2018) Deconstructing the Way in which Value Is 
Created in the Context of Social Entrepreneurship. International Journal of 
Management 
Reviews. 
[Online] 
20 
(1), 
62–80. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1111/ijmr.12113. 
Jarillo, J.C. (1995) 00157. Strategic networks. Creating the bordless organization. 
Butterworth Heinemann, Oxford. 
Kambil, A. (1996) Re-Inventing Value Propositions. 31. 
Kymlicka, W. (2002) 03954 Google-Books-ID: yYCcAQAAQBAJ. Contemporary 
Political Philosophy: An Introduction. Oxford University Press. 
Lumpkin, G.T., Moss, T.W., Gras, D.M., Kato, S., et al. (2013) Entrepreneurial 
processes in social contexts: how are they different, if at all? Small Business 
Economics. 40 (3), 761–783. 
Mair, J. & Schoen, O. (2007) Successful social entrepreneurial business models in 
the context of developing economies: An explorative study. International 
Journal of Emerging Markets. [Online] 2 (1), 54–68. Available from: 
doi:10.1108/17468800710718895. 

 
 
Margiono, A., Zolin, R. & Chang, A. (2017) A typology of social venture business 
model configurations. International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behavior & 
Research. [Online] Available from: doi:10.1108/IJEBR-09-2016-0316. 
Michelini, L. & Fiorentino, D. (2012) New business models for creating shared 
value. Social Responsibility Journal. [Online] 8 (4), 561–577. Available from: 
doi:10.1108/17471111211272129. 
Osterwalder, A. (2004) The business model ontology: A proposition in a design 
science approach. 
Osterwalder, A. & Pigneur, Y. (2010) 08446. Business model generation: a 
handbook for visionaries, game changers, and challengers. John Wiley & 
Sons. 
Peredo, A.M. & McLean, M. (2006) Social entrepreneurship: A critical review of 
the concept. Journal of World Business. [Online] 41 (1), 56–65. Available 
from: doi:10.1016/j.jwb.2005.10.007. 
Porter, M.E. & Kramer, M.R. (2019) Creating shared value. In: Managing 
Sustainable Business. Springer. pp. 327–350. 
Post, S.G. (2005) Altruism, happiness, and health: it’s good to be good. 
International Journal of Behavioral Medicine. [Online] 12 (2), 66–77. 
Available from: doi:10.1207/s15327558ijbm1202_4. 
Reinecke, J. (2010) Beyond a subjective theory of value and towards a ‘fair price’: 
an organizational perspective on Fairtrade minimum price setting Craig 
Prichard & Raza Mir (eds.). Organization. [Online] 17 (5), 563–581. Available 
from: doi:10.1177/1350508410372622. 
Santos, F., Pache, A.-C. & Birkholz, C. (2015) Making Hybrids Work: Aligning 
Business Models and Organizational Design for Social Enterprises. California 
Management 
Review. 
[Online] 
57 
(3), 
36–58. 
Available 
from: 
doi:10.1525/cmr.2015.57.3.36. 
Santos, F.M. (2012) A Positive Theory of Social Entrepreneurship. Journal of 
Business Ethics. 111 (3), 335–351. 
Seelos, C. & Mair, J. (2005) Social entrepreneurship: Creating new business models 
to serve the poor. Business Horizons. [Online] 48 (3), 241–246. Available 
from: doi:10.1016/j.bushor.2004.11.006. 
Smith, A. (1817) 01766. An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of 
Nations. Рипол Классик. 
Sparviero, S. (2019) The Case for a Socially Oriented Business Model Canvas: The 
Social Enterprise Model Canvas. Journal of Social Entrepreneurship. [Online] 
0 (0), 1–20. Available from: doi:10.1080/19420676.2018.1541011. 
Spieth, P., Schneider, S., Clauß, T. & Eichenberg, D. (2018) Value drivers of social 
businesses: A business model perspective. Long Range Planning. [Online] 
Available from: doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2018.04.004 [Accessed: 2 July 2018]. 

 
 
Vial, V. (2016) A Business Model Canvas for Social Enterprises. Sains Humanika. 8 
(1–2). 
Woolley, J.L., Bruno, A.V. & Carlson, E.D. (2013) Social Venture Business Model 
Archetypes: Five Vehicles for Creating Economic and Social Value. Journal of 
Management for Global Sustainability. [Online] 2, 7–30. Available from: 
doi:10.13185/JM2013.01202. 
Yunus, M., Moingeon, B. & Lehmann-Ortega, L. (2010) Building Social Business 
Models: Lessons from the Grameen Experience. Long Range Planning. 
[Online] 43 (2), 308–325. Available from: doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2009.12.005. 
Zeithaml, V.A. (1988) Consumer perceptions of price, quality, and value: a means-
end model and synthesis of evidence. The Journal of marketing. 2–22. 
Zott, C. & Amit, R. (2010) Business Model Design: An Activity System Perspective. 
Long Range Planning. [Online] 43 (2), 216–226. Available from: 
doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.004. 
Zott, C., Amit, R. & Massa, L. (2011) The Business Model: Recent Developments 
and Future Research. Journal of Management. [Online] 37 (4), 1019–1042. 
Available from: doi:10.1177/0149206311406265. 
 
 
 

 
 
Sustainable Business Models At The 
Bottom of The Pyramid  
 
Romel Brun1,* , Nikolay Dentchev2 
 
1Universidad Catolica Boliviana San Pablo filiation; 2Vrije Universiteit 
Brussel 
 
* romelbrun@gmail.com 
 
Extended abstract 
Despite the growing interest in the Bottom of the Pyramid (BoP) literature, issues 
like social and environmental topics in the BoP context and business models of 
BoP entrepreneurs need to be developed further  (Khalid & Seuring, 2017; Puente, 
Cervilla, González, & Auletta, 2017). In this research, we attempt to address these 
gaps in the BoP literature. Our argument is that we will have a sustainable society 
inasmuch as BoP entrepreneurs implement sustainable activities. We do not know 
the structure of business model of BoP entrepreneurs and how their activities help 
the society to overcome social, cultural and environmental problems. BoP 
entrepreneurs confront many challenges, for instance to achieve capabilities for 
alleviating their lack of resources (Shivarajan, Srinivasan, & Shivarajan, 2015) and 
to develop strong business models to be able to scale and come out of poverty 
(Cervilla & Puente, 2013).  The goal of this research is twofold, first we want to 
draw the SBM of a BoP entrepreneur and second, we want to study how the 
business models of BoP entrepreneurs can contribute to resolving social, cultural 
and environmental issues. In order to understand how the business models of BoP 
entrepreneurs may contribute to the transformation of the society into a more 
sustainable place, we will draw our study into three literatures: BoP literature, 
business model literature and sustainable business model literature.  
The concept of Bottom of Pyramid (BoP) was coined for the first time by Prahalad 
& Hart (2002) and became the framework for discussing poverty in business 
academy (Ana Maria Peredo et al., 2017). Kolk, Rivera-Santos, & Rufín (2014) in 
their literature review stated that research on the BoP mostly puts the accent on 

 
 
consumers despite the fact that the effect of the strategy suggested by Prahalad 
& Hart (2002) has no clear empirical support. In order to address the critics made 
by some scholars (Karnani, 2009), London (2014) developed the BoP Protocol. He 
stated the importance of the Business Models (BM) behind BoP ventures. London 
& Hart (2004) called for a more collaborative alliance with the BoP. In the same 
line, London (2014) stated that companies should work in equal condition with 
BoP communities for co-creating new ventures. In this context, Shivarajan et al. 
(2015) extend the BoP poverty alleviation approach by considering the poor nor 
just as mere consumers but  as valuable suppliers of intellectual property. They 
show a case regarding the knowledge of the poor about the protection of 
agricultural biodiversity based on the study made by Grupta (2010). 
Business Model (BM) literature has become popular since the boom of e-
commerce in 1990s  (Zott & Amit, 2010). One of the most influential papers in the 
BM field, is the one written by Magretta (2002). In her paper titled “Why Business 
Models Matter” she argued that every successful BM must consider the following 
elements: 1) a clear identification of the customer that a company want to serve, 
2) a clear identification of what customer really appreciate or value and 3) the 
effective way of doing income. Zott et al., (2010) claim that the research on BM 
was made from a different perspective among them 1) the use of information 
technology in organizations, 2) strategic issues for instance value creation, 
competitive advantages, firm performance, and 3) innovation and technology. In 
this line,  Wirtz, Pistoia, Ullrich, & Göttel (2015) point down the fact that there is a 
convergence in studying BM from a strategic point of view. The stream of research 
on BM from the strategic perspective, support that firms can compete through 
their business models  (Casadesus-Masanell & Ricart, 2010).  
Sustainable Business Models (SBM) is an emerging field (Fancy, Dembek, & 
Dembek, 2017). Lüdeke-freund (2010) define SBM from a strategic management 
perspective as “a business model that creates competitive advantage through 
superior customer value and contributes to the sustainable development of the 
company and society”. We have some outstanding contribution regarding the 
definition of SBM (Ludeke-Freund, 2010; Morioka, Bolis, Evans, & Carvalho, 2017). 
At the same time, we have some researchers that deal with the development of a 
framework and tools for the implantation of SBM (Stubbs, Cocklin, & Stubbs, 
2010). Others like Joyce & Paquin (2016) expanded the Canvas Business Models 
by incorporating environmental and social issues in its design . Following the logic 
of Michelini & Fiorentino (2012), we can restate their claim by stating that healthy 
BoP entrepreneurship needs a healthy society (and) at the same time a healthy 

 
 
society needs healthy BoP entrepreneurship. So BoP entrepreneurs by 
implementing SBM they will contribute to the society by developing sustainable 
entrepreneurship. 
The research will be exploratory and qualitative. The information will be collected 
from the multiple case study approach with in-depth interviews. From a 
preliminary reconstruction cases of BoP entrepreneurs in different regions of 
Bolivia, for instance: La Paz, El Alto, Viacha, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and Tarija 
from a sustainable perspective, we could show how sustainable activities are 
embedded in their business models. The case of ASARBOLSEM in La Paz, shows 
how BoP entrepreneurs can make a business sustainable by matching values 
upstream and downstream of the venture. The cases of MINKHA in Cochabamba, 
ARTECHI and PAUROCA in Santa Cruz shows how their activities preserve the 
culture and the biodiversity of each region. The cases of a BoP entrepreneurs in El 
Alto and Viacha dealing with balanced animal feed and dairy products, 
respectively, demonstrate how their activities looks for solving lack of 
competitiveness and migration issues of the countryside. Last but not least, La 
miga a bakery venture in Tarija, show how her activities help to improve social 
issues by preserving the health of consumer by employing natural resources in the 
production of bread.  
Keywords 
Sustainable Business Model, Bottom of the Pyramid, Entrepreneurs 
References 
 
Casadesus-Masanell, R., & Ricart, J. E. (2010). From strategy to business models 
and 
onto 
tactics. 
Long 
Range 
Planning, 
43(2–3), 
195–215. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2010.01.004 
Cervilla, M. A., & Puente, C. R. (2013). Modelos de negocio de emprendimientos 
por y para la base de la pirámide. Revista De Ciencias Sociales, XIX(2), 283–
308 
páginas. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://www.redalyc.org/articulo.oa?id=28026992009 
Fancy, P., Dembek, K., & Dembek, K. (2017). Research and Practice on Sustainable 
Business 
Models : 
Emerging 
Field 
or 
Passing 
Fancy ? 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.08.093 

 
 
Joyce, A., & Paquin, R. L. (2016). The triple layered business model canvas : A tool 
to design more sustainable business models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
135, 1474–1486. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.06.067 
Khalid, R. U., & Seuring, S. (2017). Analyzing Base-of-the-Pyramid Research from a 
( Sustainable ) Supply Chain Perspective. Journal of Business Ethics. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-017-3474-x 
Lüdeke-freund, F. (n.d.). Towards a conceptual framework of Business Model for 
Sustainability, 49(0), 1–28. 
Magretta, J. (2002). Why Business Models Matter, HBR.pdf. Harvard Business 
Review, 
80(5), 
86–92. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/1099-
0690(200112)2001:23<4391::AID-EJOC4391>3.0.CO;2-D 
Michelini, L., & Fiorentino, D. (2012). New business models for creating shared 
value, 8(4), 561–577. https://doi.org/10.1108/17471111211272129 
Morioka, S. N., Bolis, I., Evans, S., & Carvalho, M. M. (2017). Transforming 
sustainability challenges into competitive advantage: Multiple case studies 
kaleidoscope converging into sustainable business models. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.08.118 
Puente, R., Cervilla, M. A., González, C. G., & Auletta, N. (2017). Determinants of 
the growth aspiration: a quantitative study of Venezuelan entrepreneurs. 
Small Business Economics, 48(3), 699–726. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-
016-9791-0 
Shivarajan, S., Srinivasan, A., & Shivarajan, S. (2015). Ethics Quarterly : The Poor as 
Suppliers of Intellectual Property : A Social The Poor as Suppliers of 
Intellectual Property : A Social Network Approach to, (May), 381–406. 
https://doi.org/10.5840/beq201323326 
Stubbs, W., Cocklin, C., & Stubbs, W. (2010). Business Model ”. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/1086026608318042 
Wirtz, B. W., Pistoia, A., Ullrich, S., & Göttel, V. (2016). Business Models: Origin, 
Development and Future Research Perspectives. Long Range Planning, 
49(1), 36–54. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2015.04.001 
Zott, C., & Amit, R. (2010). Business model design: An activity system perspective. 
Long 
Range 
Planning, 
43(2–3), 
216–226. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.004 
  

 
 
The HRM strategies for labor market 
integration of refugees in turkey:  
The case of a social entrepreneur 
 
Burcin Hatipoglu 
Bogazici University, 
UNSW, Canberra  
burcin.hatipoglu@boun.edu.tr 
b.hatipoglu@adfa.edu.au 
 
Abstract  
This case study reports on the labor-management strategies of a social 
entrepreneur that employs refugees as part of its workforce in Turkey. Supported 
by qualitative data, the results will be of interest to policymakers, NGO-Rs as well 
as organizations that are looking for ways to have a more diverse workforce.  
Keywords 
Refugee Employment, Social Entrepreneur, Human Resource Management, 
Turkey. 
Main text  
This case study reports on the business model innovations of a social 
entrepreneurial organization (SEO) from Turkey and it’s labor management 
strategies for refugee employment. The social mission of the case SEO is to provide 
income opportunities for mothers that are from disadvantaged groups (e.g. low-
income families, single women, women who experienced domestic violence and 
refugee groups). Refugee employment is a relatively new phenomenon in the 
country and in integrating refugees into its workforce the SEO seeks ways of 
addressing a social problem in this specific context and to attain business 
objectives as well (Schaltegger et al., 2012).    

 
 
The number of people driven away from their homes in the world has skyrocketed, 
reaching 68.5 million people by the end of 2017. More than a third of these people 
are refugees that are running away from their countries for the reasons of conflict 
and persecution. Since the starting of the Syrian Civil war in 2011, 6.3 million 
Syrians have sought refuge in other countries (UNHCR, 2018). Turkey has adopted 
an open–door policy since the outbreak of the war until 2016, which resulted in a 
major influx of Syrians arriving through the border. Turkey remains the world’s top 
refugee-hosting country with 3,6 million Syrian refugees as of December 2018 
(Refugee Association, 2018; UNHCR, 2018).  
Refugees face numerous barriers in relation to finding employment in the host 
country. Even though each refugee’s experience is unique, the literature points to 
some common issues that can be summarized as individual and structural barriers 
that are slowing down the processes of finding meaningful employment for the 
refugees (e.g. Campion, 2018; Baranik et al., 2018; Wehrle at al., 2018).  During 
the labor market integration processes support from local labor market 
institutions such as the local government, resettlement agencies, NGOs and 
intermediaries are very important for refugees (Verwiebe et al., 2018; Garkisch, 
2017). Employing special groups of employees (e.g. immigrants or refugees) 
presents unique challenges for local organizations (Guo, & Ariss, 2015; Gericke et 
al., 2018; Newman et al., 2018a). The organizations are recommended to 
understand the needs of the refugees, find specialized ways to attract them and 
adopt alternative strategies to integrate them into their workforce (Zikic, 2015). 
Prior studies based on refugee experiences have repeatedly reported about the 
discrimination that refugees experience during the job search (e.g. Verwiebe et 
al., 2018). Therefore, through understanding the characteristics of these groups, 
organizations can adopt proactive, inclusive and differentiated recruitment 
strategies (Guo & Ariss, 2015). In summary, the data points to the large gaps in 
refugee access to the labor markets and underlines the urgency of acting for better 
integration policies and practices.  
 
In Turkey, Syrian refugees are given rights to work in 2016, however, they are 
found to experience difficulties in benefiting from these rights (Saraçoğlu & 
Bélanger, 2019). And there are only a few scientific studies on individual 
experiences of discrimination against refugees (e.g. Knappert et al., 2018; Sunata 
& Tosun, 2018)) and no study examining the organizational strategies of Turkish 
businesses. Consequently, I believe Turkey provides a useful context to explore 
the strategies of businesses in integrating refugees into their workforce.  

 
 
A social entrepreneurial organization can be broadly defined as an innovative and 
social value creating organization, that is not defined by its legal form (Austin et 
al., 2006), but chooses the primacy of the individual and social objectives over the 
capital, reinvests surpluses and applies democratic governance principles 
(Monzon & Chaves, 2017). SOEs, however, are different than other social-mission 
organizations as they choose not to rely on donations but aim to create their own 
financial resources in order to address social issues (Newman et al., 2018b). The 
way SOEs discover, define and aim to find solutions for pressing social issues is by 
building solutions into their business models (Haigh & Hoffman, 2012). Different 
than traditional entrepreneurial organizations SOEs firstly aim for value creation 
rather than value capturing (Santos 2012). Alter (2007) classifies SOEs based on 
their mission orientation (mission centric, mission related and unrelated mission) 
and the level of integration between social programs and business activities 
(embedded, integrated and external). For example, in the embedded social 
enterprise, financial and social benefits are achieved simultaneously, and the 
target population (e.g. customers, employees) is integral to the business activities. 
As such the business model of these SOEs can include employing disadvantaged 
populations and thus, aim to contribute to employment creation as part of their 
social mission (Alter, 2007).  
Despite similarities with a traditional entrepreneurial organization, operating with 
dual bottom lines (financial and social) causes internal and external tensions for a 
SOE (Battilana, J., & Lee, M., 2014). For example, when the beneficiaries of the 
SOE and the customers are not the same, the management of the SOE becomes 
even more complicated (Santos et al., 2015). In the literature organizational 
mission, financial and human resources are identified as obstacles affecting SOEs 
in advancing their goals (Austin et al., 2006; Doherty et al., 2014). Based on a 
national survey in the UK, Bridgstock et al. (2010) demonstrate the ways in which 
diversity management can contribute to innovation and business performance of 
SOEs. In the same vein, Lee et al. (2019) recognize the internal conflicts caused by 
the hybridity nature of SOEs and suggest participatory human resource practices 
(e.g. open communication and information sharing) and the development of a 
diversity climate in order to manage these tensions. In summary, the literature 
notes hiring and socialization strategies (Battilana, J., & Lee, M., 2014; Bruneel et 
al., 2016), job design and high involvement work practices (Truong, & Barraket, 
2018; Lee et al., 2019), organizational climate (Bridgstock, et al., 2010; Lee et al., 
2019) and leadership development (Thorgren, & Omorede, 2018) as some of the 
HRM strategies that SOEs can employ in order to better manage the internal 
challenges.  

 
 
Figure 1 The Conceptual Model of the Research Study  
 
 
With the aim of examining the HRM strategies for labor market integration of 
refugees, a conceptual model that takes into consideration barriers and enablers 
for refugee employment, the role of varied actors, motivations and drivers of 
organizations and HRM strategies is constructed (Figure 1). Based on the 
conceptual model of the study, this case study examines the labor management 
practices of a social entrepreneur from Turkey and asks the following research 
questions. 
• How does a social entrepreneurial enterprise integrate refugees into its 
workforce?  
• What are the sustainability implications of social entrepreneurial 
enterprise`s labor management strategies?  
As refugee employment is a recently emerging field of study, I suggest using 
literature on migrant employment together with diversity management and social 
entrepreneurship for this study. In order to answer the first research question, the 

 
 
two variables that are used are the hiring and socialization strategies of the SOE. 
With the purpose of examining the complexities of refugee employment, HRM 
strategies for local and refugee women are collected separately and compared. In 
order to answer the second question a more sustainability-based assessment is 
used, and environmental, economic and social goal achievement is investigated 
for the SOE (utilizing multiple informants). With the intention of examining goal 
achievement, the mission of the SOE is compared with the outcomes of the 
enterprise.  
To explore the distinctive challenges in managing the human component of SEOs 
with hybrid nature, this study adopted an in-depth study of a Turkish SEO that 
employs a diverse workforce. An organization that has been around for longer 
periods of time suggests that the founders have tackled with varied people-related 
issues and will provide valuable insights into the problem area. There are many 
entrepreneurial companies that are founded by refugees and that prefer to 
provide employment for refugees (Yagcı, 2018); however, there are fewer local 
companies that employ refugees as part of their social mission in the country. And 
the latter form is expected to bear a higher conflict in labor-management relations 
for the basic reasons of cultural clashes. Therefore, the case SEO was selected 
based on the criteria of i) SOE that is operating more than 5 years, ii) Integration 
of refugees into the workforce, and iii) Not founded by a refugee. Bebemoss is 
founded in 2014 by Izabela Ersahin, a French mother who lives in Istanbul. The 
social mission of the company is to provide income opportunities for 
disadvantaged mothers. The company produces crochet toys and knitwear for 
babies from organic materials, which are sold in retail stores and online shops both 
locally and abroad. The company provides income opportunities to one hundred 
women, of which 30 are refugees. The women reside in periphery areas of the city, 
they work from home and they are paid by the piece.   
Data were collected during 2017-2019 from multiple sources to capture the key 
challenges of the phenomenon analyzed (Yin, 1994): observations, in-depth 
interviews, secondary data, and social media analysis. Observations were made 
during the founder’s meetings with third-party organizations and workforce 
training. In-depth interviews were conducted with the founder of the company, a 
partner, the workforce (Turkish and Syrian Refugees) and an NGO leader. An 
Arabic language translator was used for interviews with the refugees. In the 
absence of printed documents, the secondary data relies on a documentary movie 
and social media of the SEO.     

 
 
The findings display the changes made to the mission-centric and embedded 
business model of SOE between the time of its establishment and now (5 years). 
Over time, as the social entrepreneur’s experience has built up, the types of HRM 
strategies for hiring and socializing have also progressed. These changes are 
discussed in light of the internal and external factors affecting the SOE. The study, 
additionally, explores the motivations and drivers for employing refugees and 
identifies human resource management strategies (HRM) that eliminate 
discrimination during staffing and workforce development for refugees (Figure 1). 
Furthermore, the study discusses the achievement of sustainability goals and the 
barriers for not fully accomplishing these goals.  
By using literature on social entrepreneurship and refugee employment, I aim to 
contribute to the literature in three distinct ways. First, I want to highlight the role 
of various actors in shaping the labor market integration processes of refugees in 
the very relevant context of Turkey. Supported by qualitative data, the results will 
be of interest to policymakers, NGO-Rs as well as organizations that are looking 
for ways to have a more diverse workforce. Second, I aim to expand the literature 
on refugee employment, with special emphasis on hiring and integration policies. 
Third, I aim to bring explanations on to the motivations of social entrepreneurs for 
employing refugees and contribute to the literature at the intersection of HRM 
and social entrepreneurship. 
Acknowledgment:  The author wishes to acknowledge the financial support of 
Bogazici University Research Fund with Grant Number 11560.  
References 
Alter, K. (2007). Social enterprise typology Vol. 12. (pp. 1-124).  Retrieved from 
http://www.virtueventures.com/typology.php on 20 January 2019.  
Austin, J., Stevenson, H., & Wei-Skillern, J. (2006) Social and commercial 
entrepreneurship: Same, different, or both? Entrepreneurship theory and 
practice, 30(1), 1-22. doi: DOI 10.1111/j.1540-6520.2006.00107.x 
Baranik, L. E., Hurst, C. S., & Eby, L. T. (2018) The stigma of being a refugee: A 
mixed-method study of refugees' experiences of vocational stress. Journal 
of Vocational Behavior. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvb.2017.09.006.  
Battilana, J., & Lee, M. (2014). Advancing research on hybrid organizing–Insights 
from the study of social enterprises. The Academy of Management Annals, 
8(1), 397-441. 

 
 
Bridgstock, R., Lettice, F., Özbilgin, M. F., & Tatli, A. (2010). Diversity management 
for innovation in social enterprises in the UK. Entrepreneurship and Regional 
Development, 22(6), 557-574. 
Bruneel, J., Moray, N., Stevens, R., & Fassin, Y. (2016). Balancing competing logics 
in for-profit social enterprises: a need for hybrid governance. Journal of 
Social Entrepreneurship, 7(3), 263-288. 
Campion, E. D. (2018). The career adaptive refugee: Exploring the structural and 
personal barriers to 
refugee resettlement. Journal 
of 
Vocational 
Behavior, 105, 6-16. 
Guo, C. & Al Ariss, A. (2015) Human resource management of international 
migrants: current theories and future research, The International Journal of 
Human 
Resource 
Management, 
26 
(10), 
1287-1297, 
DOI: 
10.1080/09585192.2015.1011844 
Garkisch, M., Heidingsfelder, J., & Beckmann, M. (2017) Third sector organizations 
and migration: A systematic literature review on the contribution of third 
sector 
organizations 
in 
view 
of 
flight, 
migration 
and 
refugee 
crises. VOLUNTAS: International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit 
Organizations, 28 (5), 1839-1880. 
Gericke, D., Burmeister, A., Löwe, J., Deller, J., & Pundt, L. (2018) How do refugees 
use their social capital for successful labor market integration? An 
exploratory analysis in Germany. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 105, 46-61. 
Knappert, L., Kornau, A., & Figengül, M. (2018) Refugees' exclusion at work and 
the 
intersection 
with 
gender: 
Insights 
from 
the 
Turkish-Syrian 
border. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 105, 62-82. 
Lee, J. W., Zhang, L., Dallas, M., & Chin, H. (2019). Managing relational conflict in 
Korean social enterprises: The role of participatory HRM practices, diversity 
climate, and perceived social impact. Business Ethics: A European Review, 
28(1), 19-35. 
Monzón, J. L., & Chaves, R. (2017). Recent evolutions of the Social Economy in the 
European Union (pp. 1-124). Bruxelles: European Economic and Social 
Committee, CIRIEC. 
Newman, A., Bimrose, J., Nielsen, I., & Zacher, H. (2018a) Vocational behavior of 
refugees: How do refugees seek employment, overcome work-related 
challenges, and navigate their careers? Journal of Vocational Behavior, 105, 
1-5. doi:10.1016/j.jvb.2018.01.007 
Newman, A., Mayson, S., Teicher, J., & Barrett, R. (2018b). Recruiting, managing 
and rewarding workers in social enterprises. The International Journal of 
Human Resource Management, 29(20), 2851-2860. 
Refugee Association (Mülteciler Derneği), (2018) Refugee numbers in Turkey 
December 
2018, 
Retrieved 
January 
22, 
2018, 
from 
https://multeciler.org.tr/turkiyedeki-suriyeli-sayisi/. 

 
 
Santos, F. M. (2012). A Positive Theory of Social Entrepreneurship. Journal of 
Business Ethics, 111(3), 335-351. doi: 10.1007/s10551-012-1413-4 
Santos, F., Pache, A.-C., & Birkholz, C. (2015). Making hybrids work: Aligning 
business models and organizational design for social enterprises. California 
Management Review, 57(3), 36-58. 
Saraçoğlu, C., & Bélanger, D. (2019). Syrian Refugees and Turkey. In C. Menjívar, 
M. Ruiz & I. Ness (Eds.), The Oxford Hand-book of Migration Crises (pp. 279-
295). New York: Oxford University Press. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Hansen, E. G. (2012) Business cases for 
sustainability: The role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability. International 
Journal 
of 
Innovation 
and 
Sustainable 
Development, 6 (2), 95–119. https://doi.org/10.1504/IJISD.2012.046944 
Sunata, U., & Tosun, S. (2018). Assessing the Civil Society’s Role in Refugee 
Integration in Turkey: NGO-R as a New Typology. Journal of Refugee Studies, 
0, 0-0. 
Thorgren, S., & Omorede, A. (2018). Passionate leaders in social entrepreneurship: 
Exploring an African context. Business & Society, 57(3), 481-524.  
Truong, A., & Barraket, J. (2018). Engaging workers in resource-poor 
environments: the case of social enterprise in Vietnam. The International 
Journal of Human Resource Management, 29(20), 2949-2970.  
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) (2018) Figures at a 
glance, Retrieved  January 24, 2018, from https://www.unhcr.org/figures-
at-a-glance.html. 
Verwiebe, R., Kittel, B., Dellinger, F., Liebhart, C., Schiestl, D., Haindorfer, R., & 
Liedl, B. (2018). Finding your way into employment against all odds? 
Successful job search of refugees in Austria. Journal of Ethnic and Migration 
Studies, 1-18. 
Wehrle, K., Klehe, U.-C., Kira, M., & Zikic, J. (2018). Can I come as I am? Refugees’ 
vocational identity threats, coping, and growth. Journal of Vocational 
Behavior. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvb.2017.10.010 
Zikic, J. (2015). Skilled migrants' career capital as a source of competitive 
advantage: Implications for strategic HRM. International Journal of Human 
Resource Management, 26, 1360–1381. 
Yagcı, G.( 26 September 2018). Türkiye'de işyeri açan Suriyeliler 100 bin kişiye 
istihdam sağlıyor (Syrians business owners provide 100 thousand new jobs). 
Euronews. Retrived from https://tr.euronews.com/2018/09/26/turkiye-de-
isyeri-acan-suriyeliler-100-bin-kisiye-istihdam-sagliyor. 
Yin, R. K. (1994). Case Study Research: Design and Methods. Beverly Hills, CA: SAGE 
Publications Inc. 
 

 
 
The Role of Virtual Learning 
Environments in the Democratization 
of Entrepreneurship Education in 
Africa 
 
Mariana Morais Sarmento¹*, René Bohnsack¹ 
¹Católica Lisbon School of Business and Economics 
*m.sarmento@smartcityinnovationlab.com 
 
Abstract 
The lack of access to effective Entrepreneurship Education (EE) is a key factor 
constraining the level of entrepreneurial intentions and behaviors of 
entrepreneurship graduates across Africa. Based on an extensive literature review 
on EE programs and pedagogical approaches in Africa, this short paper explores 
the differences in efficiency, effectiveness, and inclusiveness of EE programs 
between two different pedagogical approaches: Traditional Classroom Learning 
and Virtual Learning Environment. 
Keywords 
Entrepreneurship Education, Virtual Learning Environments, Entrepreneurial 
Intentions and Behaviors, Africa, Democratization of Education. 
Introduction  
In recent years, entrepreneurship has been increasingly recognized as a valuable 
tool for the achievement of sustainable growth (Ayodeji & Oluwatayo, 2015), 
yielding the basis for business initiatives and development agencies to cooperate 
for a more inclusive and effective development path (Barcelona Centre for 
International Affairs, 2014). In a recent report (Robb, Valerio & Parton, 2014), the 
World Bank emphasized the need for more entrepreneurship education in Africa. 

 
 
The promise of transformative growth of entrepreneurship in the socio-economic 
spectrum encouraged multiple African governments to conduct reforms of the 
education systems, in an effort to boost effective education, job creation, and 
economic development. Yet, Bwisa (2017) points out that, in most African 
countries, very few entrepreneurship graduates are self-employed. In line with the 
World Bank’s remarks, Kew et al. (2015) concluded that the key constraint 
affecting the level entrepreneurial intentions and behaviors of entrepreneurship 
graduates across Africa is the lack of access to effective and inclusive 
Entrepreneurship Education (EE).  
Although a robust body of research supports the role that entrepreneurship 
education has in raising the level of entrepreneurial self-efficacy, as well as the link 
between 
entrepreneurial 
self-efficacy 
and 
entrepreneurial 
intentions 
(Piperopoulos & Dimov, 2015; Turker & Selcuk, 2008; Wilson, Kickul, & Marlino, 
2007), research on how different pedagogical approaches to entrepreneurship 
education programs influence the level of entrepreneurial self-efficacy, intentions, 
and behaviors is scarce (Fayolle & Gailly, 2013). Valuable studies in this research 
stream focus essentially either on entrepreneurship programs’ specific 
educational variables, such as content, evaluation methods, and structural and 
educational support (Soutaris, Zerbinati, & Al-Laham, 2007; Piperopoulos & 
Dimov, 2015; Krueger & Carsrud, 1993; Bae et al., 2014; Turker & Selcuk, 2008), or 
on entrepreneurship programs’ participants’ characteristics, such as motivations, 
background, and context (Bae et al., 2014; Ang & Hong, 2000; Wang & Wong, 
2004; Henderson & Robertson, 2000; Lee, Chang & Lim, 2005; Luthje & Franke, 
2003; Turker et al., 2005). But thus far, very little is known on how the art of 
teaching and learning entrepreneurship influences entrepreneurial intention and 
behavior (Fayolle & Gailly, 2013). This warrants a closer look at how different 
pedagogical approaches (traditional classroom learning versus virtual learning 
environments) influence entrepreneurship education programs in three key 
dimensions: efficiency, effectiveness, and inclusiveness. 
With this in mind, we set out to explore how an increasing level of virtual online 
education and collaborative integration within a student-centered environment 
might contribute to the democratization of EE in Africa. The democratization of EE 
refers to the provision of inclusive, effective, equal learning and teaching 
experiences (Iloanya, 2017). By evaluating and comparing the influence of 
traditional 
classroom 
learning 
versus 
virtual 
learning 
environment 
entrepreneurship education on the levels of entrepreneurial self-efficacy, 
intentions, and behaviors of entrepreneurship graduates, this paper aims to 

 
 
conceptualize the potential for the level of online and collaborative integration 
within a student-centered environment to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, 
and inclusiveness of EE in Africa. With traditional classroom learning (TCL), we are 
referring to teacher-centered, one-way, offline-learning spaces, where teachers 
are transmitters of knowledge and learners merely absorb and capitalize on what 
is delivered by the teacher. Virtual learning environments (VLEs) are student-
centered, multi-way, online-learning spaces, where learners and educators 
participate in online interactions of various kinds, including individual online 
learning and collaborative project-based learning.  
Discussion of the state of virtual educational technologies in the context of Africa’s 
higher education institutions is of great interest and importance (Rivers, Rivers & 
Hezell, 2015). Although many of the most vulnerable African economies are 
lagging behind in this technological race to develop and implement educational 
digital technologies, it is important to notice that this trend is changing. Some of 
Africa’s high-tech entrepreneurship booming economies – namely, Kenya, Ivory 
Coast, Nigeria, Ghana, and South Africa (KINGS) – currently have over 20 years of 
experience in the development, implementation, evaluation, training, and policy 
development of virtual educational technologies (Rivers, Rivers & Hezell, 2015).   
We begin this paper with a review of relevant streams of research and previous 
study results on the relationship between entrepreneurship education and 
entrepreneurial self-efficacy, intentions, and behaviors. Next, we identify and 
describe three EE program dimensions. We conclude with a conceptual framework 
that compares EE program dimensions in TCL-based programs versus VLE-based 
programs. 
Background 
Entrepreneurship Education in Africa 
Despite the different realities in each one of Africa’s 54 member states, high levels 
of poverty, rising income inequality, and declining commodity prices are a 
constant in most of Africa’s economies. According to 2019’s African Economy 
Outlook, Africa’s working-age population is projected to increase from 705 million 
in 2018 to almost 1 billion by 2030. At the current rate of labor force growth, Africa 
needs to create about 12 million new jobs every year just to prevent 
unemployment from rising even higher. This is why it is urgent for young people 
to be efficiently, effectively, and inclusively educated in the field of 

 
 
entrepreneurship; it is urgent for Africa’s youth to become job-creators instead of 
job-seekers (Jesselyn Co & Mitchell, 2006). 
As Kuratko (2005) puts it, “entrepreneurship is more than the mere creation of 
business”. Entrepreneurship is a dynamic process of vision, change, and creation 
that requires the application of energy and passion towards the creation and 
implementation of new ideas and creative solutions (Kurtako & Hodgetts, 2004). 
Entrepreneurship education (EE) consists of “any program or process of education 
for entrepreneurial attitudes and skills” (Fayolle, Gailly & Lassas-Clerc, 2006). 
Although scholars have described various types of EE targeted towards specific 
goals (Jamieson, 1984; Laukannen, 2002; Liñán, 2004), we can generally 
distinguish two main areas of EE: about entrepreneurship and for 
entrepreneurship. Education about entrepreneurship considers entrepreneurship 
as a social phenomenon and educates through the studying and transfer of 
theories and knowledge regarding the entrepreneur, the firm creation, and the 
entrepreneurial process. Education for entrepreneurship considers the learning 
experience of the dynamic entrepreneurial process by focusing on the 
development of competencies, skills, aptitudes, and values (Postigo & Tamborini, 
2002). While business academics and practitioners have evolved past the question 
of whether entrepreneurship can be taught, there is still very little knowledge on 
how the art of teaching and learning entrepreneurship influences entrepreneurial 
self-efficacy, the antecedent of entrepreneurial intentions and behaviors (Fayolle 
& Gailly, 2013).  
Entrepreneurial Self-Efficacy 
Self-efficacy regards one’s self-perception in their own abilities and skills to 
perform a particular task (Bandyra,1986; Wilson, Kickul & Marlino, 2007). Several 
lines of evidence suggest that since entrepreneurial self-efficacy, meaning how an 
individual perceives his or her self-perception in their own abilities and skills to 
launch a new venture, can predict one’s intentions to launch a new ventures 
(Krueger & Brazeal, 1994; Koh, 1996; Luthje & Franke, 2003; Wilson, Kickul & 
Marlino, 2007). It can also be a reliable predictor in educational settings 
(Piperopoulos & Dimov, 2015; Turker & Selcuk, 2008; Wilson, Kickul, & Marlino, 
2007). A number of studies have postulated that EE programs designed to foster 
the development of students’ entrepreneurial self-efficacy level results in 
increasing graduates’ entrepreneurial intentions (Robinson & Sexton, 1994; Chen, 
Greene & Crick, 1998; Pittaway et al., 2010; Wilson, Kickul & Marlino, 2007; 
Zellweger, Sieger & Halter, 2011). Nevertheless, we do not yet know which role 
the form in which EE is provided plays in this relation. Research on how different 

 
 
pedagogical approaches influence the relationship between entrepreneurial self-
efficacy and entrepreneurial intentions remains limited (Fayolle & Gailly, 2013). 
Entrepreneurial Intentions and Behaviors 
The most important research challenges on entrepreneurial intentions are in the 
intention-behavior link (Fayolle & Liñán, 2013). Bae et al. (2014) define 
entrepreneurial intentions as the desire to own or start a new business. Extensive 
research supporting the positive predictive ability of behavioral intentions in 
future behavior (Ajzen, 1991; Sheppard, Hartwick & Warsha, 1988) has led various 
scholars to regard entrepreneurial intentions as a crucial antecedent of actual 
entrepreneurial behaviors (Krueger, Reilly & Carsrud, 2000; Lee et al., 2011).  
According to Ajzen’s Theory of Planned Behavior (1991), intention to perform a 
behavior arises from three independent determinants: (a) attitude, (b) subjective 
norm, and (c) perceived behavior control. Attitude towards starting a new 
business regards how the individual evaluates their performing, either positive or 
negative, of starting a new business (e.g. “For me, choosing a self-employed career 
would be foolish/inspiring”). Subjective norm towards starting a new business 
refers to the individuals’ perceptions of social pressures, from family and friends 
to start a new business (e.g. “Most people who are important to me are 
supportive/unsupportive of my desire to start a new business”). Perceived 
behavioral control towards starting a new business refers to individuals’ 
entrepreneurial self-efficacy (e.g. “I am confident/unconfident on my ability to 
gather the resources needed to build a viable business”). Although social-
psychological studies present intention as the single best predictor of actual 
behavior (Bagozzi, Baumhartener & Yi, 1989), entrepreneurship academics and 
practitioners cast doubt on whether entrepreneurial intentions predict actual 
entrepreneurial behaviors (Douglas & Shepherd, 2002).  
Gartner (1985) defines entrepreneurial behaviors as the exercise of continuous 
action to gather resources and build viable business structures. According to 
Gollwitzer (1993), the intention-behavior bridge is built on the distinction of two 
separate states: (a) the state of willing, in which the behavior to start a new 
venture is desired, and (b) the state of planning, in which the steps that lead to 
the achievement of the desired behavior of starting a new venture are specified 
(Orbell, Hodgkins & Sheeran, 1997). Gollwitzer (1990) and Heckhausen (1991) 
postulate that the intention-behavior link starts with a deliberative phase, 
characterized by the consideration of the costs and benefits of performing the 
behavior, and follows with an implemental phase, characterized by the formation 
of plans that specify when and where the behavior will be initiated (Orbell, 

 
 
Hodgkins & Sheeran, 1997). Gollwitzer (1993) describes these plans, 
implementation intentions, as the key to initiate the movement from intention to 
behavior. Although multiple studies have provided empirical evidence on how the 
formation of implementation intentions, specifying when and where a particular 
behavior will be performed, increases the likelihood that the final goal will be 
achieved (Gollwitzer, 1993; Orbell, Hodgkins & Sheeran, 1997), this is new ground 
for entrepreneurship research (Kautonen, Van Geldere & Tornikoshi, 2013). This 
relatively limited understanding of which mechanisms in the entrepreneurial 
process affect how entrepreneurial intentions generate entrepreneurial behaviors 
(Kautonen, Van Gelderen & Tornikoski, 2013; Laspita et al., 2012), led Fayolle and 
Liñán (2013) to claim an urgent need to empirically and theoretically investigate 
the entrepreneurial intention-behavior link moderated by EE. 
The Democratization of Entrepreneurship Education 
Educational technologies advancements are transforming higher education at an 
incredible speed. New learners’ interests, needs, and preferences characterize the 
journey from “transmitted” to “harvested” knowledge (Kundi & Nawaz, 2010), 
from passive information consumption to independent learning environments 
(Young, 2003; Baumeister, 2005). Thus, two competing pedagogical approaches 
may be compared: traditional classroom learning versus virtual environment 
learning. 
Traditional classroom learning (TCL) is a teacher-centered, one-way, offline-
learning space, where teachers are transmitters of knowledge and learners merely 
absorb and capitalize on what is delivered by the teacher.  Virtual learning 
environments (VLEs) are student-centered, multi-way, online-learning spaces, 
where learners and educators participate in online interactions of various kinds, 
including individual online learning and collaborative project-based learning. 
According to Dillenboug, Schneider, and Synteta (2007) and to O’Leary and 
Ramsden (2002), VLEs consist of: (a) designed information space, (b) social and 
collaborative space, (c) comprehensively represented content, (d) students as 
actors, not spectators, (e) integration of heterogeneous technologies and multiple 
pedagogical approaches. 
Iloanya (2017) describes the 21st-century revolution of Higher Education 
Institutions as the democratization of education; the “change from what used to 
be teacher-dominated and teacher-centered learning, to student-centered 
learning”. The aim of this paradigm shift is to empower the development of critical 
thinking, problem-solving, and collaboration, by guiding learners along the process 

 
 
of learning through self-exploration. The democratization of Entrepreneurship 
Education (EE) refers to the provision of inclusive, effective, equal learning and 
teaching entrepreneurship experiences (Iloanya, 2017). Thus the relevance of 
investigating the potential for a more democratized pedagogical approach to 
improving the efficiency, effectiveness, and inclusiveness of EE in Africa (Kuratko, 
2005; Solomon, Duffy & Tarabishy, 2002).  
Efficiency refers to the current problem of high resource intensiveness of 
entrepreneurship programs that do not translate in more entrepreneurship 
graduates launching new ventures. Although the strong role of entrepreneurship 
education in raising the levels of self-efficacy and entrepreneurial intentions of 
entrepreneurship education has been widely accepted (Bae et al., 2014; 
Piperopoulos & Dimov, 2015; Soutaris, Zerbinati, & Al-Laham, 2007; Turker & 
Slcuk, 2008; Wilson, Kuckul, & Marlino, 2007), current TCL-based programs’ high 
resource intensiveness and one-size-fits-all formats yield limited efficiency.  
The effectiveness of entrepreneurship education refers to the low level of 
entrepreneurial intentions and behaviors of entrepreneurship graduates (Bwisa, 
2017; Jesselyn Co & Mitchell (2006); Kew at al., 2015; Robb, Valerio & Parton, 
2014). Although there is no doubt that Information and Communication 
Technologies (ICTs) are at the core of 21st-century education (Knight C., Knight B, 
& Teghe, 2006), it is important to realize that learning is not to be managed and 
controlled, but rather facilitated and guided (Dalsgaard, 2006). Current TCL-based 
programs may even feature some e-Learning content and support models, like 
online slides and e-mail communication; yet, these are still characterized by one 
learning-model fit all, where learning takes place through the instructor (teacher-
centered) in a one-way transmission form. In these settings, entrepreneurship 
programs become significantly less effective due to: (a) non-collaborative, (b) non-
engaging, and (c) standardized and structured knowledge consumption.  
Inclusiveness regards the lack of context- and gender-sensitive entrepreneurship 
programs that make access to EE a privilege of few and yield a significant gender 
gap between the entrepreneurial intentions and behaviors of female and male 
participants. Current TCL-based programs adopt a one-size-fits-all approach that 
does not address students’ individual learning needs (Scherer et al., 1990; 
Kourilsky & Walstad, 1998). In these settings, entrepreneurship programs become 
significantly less inclusive due to the lack of (a) flexibility, (b) integration of 
individual interests, motivations, and fears, and (c) adequate self-efficacy building. 

 
 
Towards A Virtual Learning Environment-based Framework 
of Entrepreneurship Education 
Overall, Virtual Learning Environment-based entrepreneurship programs seem to 
hold the promise to increase efficiency, effectiveness, and inclusiveness of 
entrepreneurship programs for a population that would be otherwise excluded. 
Table 1 summarizes the comparison between Traditional Classroom Learning- and 
Virtual Learning Environment-based education across these three key dimensions.  
------------------------ 
Table 1 about here 
------------------------ 
This conceptual framework may provide valuable guidance for subsequent 
empirical studies in the evaluation of how a selected pedagogical approach, 
defined by the level of online and collaborative integration within a student-
centered environment, influences the level of entrepreneurial intentions and 
behaviors of entrepreneurship graduates, particularly for student-centered 
environments in Africa’s KINGS economies. 
References 
African Economic Outlook 2019. (2019). Jobs, growth, and firm dynamism. African 
Development 
Bank 
Group, 
pp. 
45-74. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.afdb.org/fileadmin/uploads/afdb/Documents/Publications/2
019AEO/AEO_2019-EN-CHAP2.pdf 
Ajzen I. (1991). The theory of planned behavior. Organizational Behavior and 
Human 
Decision 
Processes, 
50:2, 
pp. 
179-211. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/074959789190020T 
Also G. & Kolvereid L. (1998). The business gestation process of novice, serial, and 
parallel business founders. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 22:4, pp. 
101-114. 
Available 
from: 
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/104225879802200405 
Ang D. & Hong D. (2000). Entrepreneurial spirit among East Asian Chinese. 
Thunderbird International Business Review, 42:3, pp. 285-309. Available 
from: 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/1520-
6874(200005/06)42:3%3C285::AID-TIE2%3E3.0.CO;2-5 

 
 
Ayittey 
G. 
(2007). Africa’s 
cheetahs 
versus 
hippos. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.ted.com/talks/george_ayittey_on_cheetahs_vs_hippos?utm_
campaign=tedspread&utm_medium=referral&utm_source=tedcomshare 
Ayodeji O. & Oluwatayo I. (2015). ENTREPRENEURSHIP AS DRIVERS OF GROWTH, 
WEALTH CREATION AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA. 
Socioeconomic, 
4, 
pp. 
325-332. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/291823382_ENTREPRENEURSHI
P_AS_DRIVERS_OF_GROWTH_WEALTH_CREATION_AND_SUSTAINABLE_DE
VELOPMENT_IN_NIGERIA 
Bagozzi P, Baumgartner J. & Yi Y. (1989). An investigation into the role of intentions 
as mediators of the attitude-behavior relationship. Journal of Economic 
Psychology, 
10:1, 
pp. 
35-62. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0167487089900561 
Bae T., Qian S., Miao C. & Fiet J. (2014). The relationship between 
entrepreneurship education and entrepreneurial intentions: A meta-
analytic review. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 38:2, pp. 217-254. 
Available from: https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1111/etap.12095 
Barcelona Centre for International Affairs. (2014). The role of entrepreneurship 
towards sustainable development: The case of Africa. Available from: 
https://www.cidob.org/en/events/issues/development/the_role_of_entre
preneurship_towards_sustainable_development_the_case_of_africa 
[Accessed 12th February 2019] 
Baumeister H. (2005). Networked learning in the knowledge economy – A 
systematic challenge for Universities. European Journal of Open, Distance 
and 
E-Learning, 
8:1. 
Available 
from: 
http://www.eurodl.org/?p=archives&year=2005&&abstract=177 
Bullough A., Luque M., Abdelzaher S. & Heim W. (2015). Developing Women 
Leaders Through Entrepreneurship Education and Training. Academy of 
Management 
Perspectives, 
29:2, 
pp. 
250-270. 
Available 
from: 
https://journals.aom.org/doi/10.5465/amp.2012.0169 
Bwisa H. (2017). TOWARDS THE IMPROVEMENT OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
EDUCATION 
IN 
AFRICA. 
Available 
from: 
http://41.204.187.24/handle/123456789/3395 
Chen C., Greene G. & Crick A. (1998). Does entrepreneurial self-efficacy distinguish 
entrepreneurs from managers?. Journal of Business Venturing, 13:4, pp. 295-
316. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883902697000293 

 
 
Cirera X. & Qasim Q. (2014). Supporting growth-oriented women entrepreneurs: 
A review of the evidence and key challenges. The World Bank, 92210, pp. 1-
20. 
Available 
from: 
http://www-
wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/WDSP/IB/2014/1
1/02/000333037_20141102234229/%20Rendered/PDF/922100BRI0Box30
epreneurs01002014web.pdf 
Dalsgaard C. (2006). Social software: E-learning beyond learning management 
systems. European Journal of Open, Distance and e-learning, 9:2. Available 
from: 
http://www.eurodl.org/materials/contrib/2006/Christian_Dalsgaard.pdf 
DeJaeghere J. & Baxter A. (2014). Entrepreneurship education for youth in sub-
Saharan Africa: A capabilities approach as an alternative framework to 
neoliberalism’s individualizing risks. Progress in Development Studies, 14:1, 
pp. 
61-76. 
Available 
from: 
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1464993413504353 
Dillenbourg P., Schneider D. & Synteta P. (2002). Virtual Learning Environments. 
3rd Hellenic Conference “Information & Communication Technologies in 
Education”, 
pp. 
3-18. 
Available 
from: 
https://telearn.archives-
ouvertes.fr/hal-00190701/ 
Douglas J. & Shepherd A. (2002). Self-employment as a career choice: Attitudes, 
entrepreneurial intentions, and utility maximization. Entrepreneurship 
Theory 
and 
Practice, 
26:3, 
pp. 
81-90. 
Available 
from: 
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/104225870202600305 
Fayolle A. & Gailly B. (2015). The impact of entrepreneurship education on 
entrepreneurial attitudes and intention: Hysteresis and persistence. Journal 
of Small Business Management, 53:1, pp. 75-93. Available from: 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jsbm.12065 
Fayolle A., Gailly B. & Lassas-Clerc N. (2006). Assessing the impact of 
entrepreneurship education programmes: a new methodology. Journal of 
European Industrial Training, 30:9, pp. 701-720. Available from: 
https://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/03090590610715022 
Fayolle A. & Liñán F. (2014). The Future of Research on Entrepreneurial Intentions. 
Journal of Business Research, 67:5, pp. 663-666. Available from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0148296313003949 
Fisher A., Roumiantseva A., Neuberger L. & Williams R. (2015). How to Design and 
Scale Digital and Blended Learning Programs to Improve Employment and 
Entrepreneurship Outcome. Accenture, High Performance Delivered. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.accenture.com/t20170203T040028Z__w__/tr-
en/_acnmedia/PDF-5/Accenture-Digital-Learning-Report-and-How-To-
Guide_Full.pdf 

 
 
Gollwitzer P. (1990). Action phases and mind-sets. In E. T. Higgins & R. M. 
Sorrentino (Eds.), Handbook of motivation and cognition: Foundations of 
social behavior, pp. 53-92. New York: Guilford 
Gollwitzer P. (1993). Goal achievement: The role of intentions. European review of 
social 
psychology, 
4:1, 
pp. 
141-185. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/14792779343000059 
Harris P., Connolly J., Feeney L. (2009). Blended learning: overview and 
recommendations 
for 
successful 
implementation. 
Industrial 
and 
Commercial 
Training, 
41:3, 
pp. 
155-163. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/pdfplus/10.1108/001978509109509
61 
Henderson R. & Robertson M. (2000). Who wants to be an entrepreneur? Young 
adult attitudes to entrepreneurship as a career. Career Development 
International, 
5:6, 
pp. 
279-287. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/mcb/137/2000/00000005/000
00006/art0000 
Iloanya J. (2017). Democratization of Teaching and Learning: a tool for the 
implementation of the Tuning Approach in Higher Education?. Tuning 
Journal for Higher Education, 4:3, pp. 257-276. Available from: 
http://www.tuningjournal.org/article/view/1217 
Jesselyn Co M. & Mitchell B. (2006). Entrepreneurship education in South Africa: a 
nationwide survey. Education+ Training, 48:5, pp. 348-359. Available from: 
https://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/pdf/10.1108/00400910610677054 
Karzunina D., West J., Moran J. & Philippou G. (2018). Technology & Pedagogical 
Innovation. Reimagine Education Intelligence Unit. Available from: 
https://www.reimagine-education.com/reimagine-education-2018-
introductory-papers/ 
Kautonen T., Van Gelderen M. & Tornikoshi E. (2013). Predicting entrepreneurial 
behavior: a test of the theory of planned behavior. Applied Economics, 45:6, 
pp. 
697-707. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00036846.2011.610750 
Kew J., Namatovu R., Aderinto R. & Chingunta F. (2015). Africa’s Young 
Entrepreneurs: Unlocking the Potential for a Brighter Future. South Africa: 
Global Entrepreneurship Monitor & International Development Research 
Center. Available from: https://www.gemconsortium.org/report/49222 
Knight C., Knight B, & Teghe D. (2006). Releasing the pedagogical power of 
information and communication technology for learners: A case study. 
International Journal of Education and Development Using ICT, 2:2, pp. 27-
34. Available from: https://www.learntechlib.org/p/42186/ 

 
 
Koh H. (1996). Testing hypotheses of entrepreneurial characteristics: A study of 
Hong Kong MBA students. Journal of Managerial Psychology, 11:3, pp. 12-
25. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/02683949610113566 
Kurilsky M. & Walstas W. (1998). Entrepreneurship and female youth: Knowledge, 
attitudes, gender difference, and educational practices. Journal of Business 
Venturing, 
13:1, 
pp. 
77-88. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883902697000323 
Krueger F. & Brazeal D. (1994). Entrepreneurial potential and potential 
entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 18:3, pp. 91-104. 
Available 
from: 
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/104225879401800307 
Krueger F. & Carsrud L. (1993). Entrepreneurial intentions: Applying the theory of 
planned behavior. Entrepreneurship and Regional Development, 5:4, pp. 
315-330. 
Available 
from: 
https://rsa.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/08985629300000020 
Krueger F., Reilly D. & Carsrud L. (2000). Competing models of entrepreneurial 
intentions. Journal of Business Venturing, 15:5-6, pp. 411-432. Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883902698000330 
Kundi G. & Nawaz A. (2010). From objectivism to social constructivism: The 
impacts of information and communication technologies (ICTs) on higher 
education. Journal of Science and Technology Education Research, 1:2, pp. 
30-36. 
 
Available 
from: 
http://www.academicjournals.org/app/webroot/article/article1379488493
_Nawaz%20and%20Kundi%208.pdf 
Kuratko D. (2005). The Emergence of Entrepreneurship Education: Development, 
Trends, and Challenges. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, 25:5, pp. 577-
597. Available from: https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1540-
6520.2005.00099.x 
Laspita S., Breugst N., Heblich S. & Patzelt H. (2012). Intergenerational 
transmission of entrepreneurial intentions. Journal of Business Venturing, 
27:3, 
pp. 
414-435. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883902611001297 
Lee S. Chang D. & Lim S. (2005). Impact of entrepreneurship education: A 
comparative study of the US and Korea. The International Entrepreneurship 
and 
Management 
Journal, 
1:1, 
pp. 
27-43. 
Available 
from: 
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11365-005-6674-2 
Lee L., Wong K., Der Foo M. & Leund A. (2011). Entrepreneurial intentions: The 
influence of organizational and individual factors. Journal of Business 
Venturing, 
26:1, 
pp. 
124-136. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883902609000408 

 
 
Luthje C. & Franke N. (2003). The ‘making’ of an entrepreneur: testing a model of 
entrepreneurial intent among engineering students at MIT. R&D 
Management, 
33:2, 
pp. 
135-147. 
Available 
from: 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/1467-9310.00288 
Lwoga E. (2012). Making learning and Web 2.0 technologies work for higher 
learning institutions in Africa. Campus-Wide Information Systems, 29:2, pp. 
90-107. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/10650741211212359 
Maritz A., Brown C. & Jen C. (2010). A BLENDED LEARNING APPROACH TO 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP EDUCATION. Actual Problems of Economics, pp. 83-93. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/299129491_A_BLENDED_LEAR
NING_APPROACH_TO_ENTREPRENEURSHIP_EDUCATION 
Merisotis J. & Phipps R. (1999). What’s the difference?: Outcomes of distance vs. 
traditional classroom-based learning. Change: The Magazine of Higher 
Learning 
31:3, 
pp. 
12-17. 
Available 
from: 
https://naspa.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/00091389909602685 
Nash 
B. 
(2015). 
The 
Future 
Is 
Africa. 
Available 
from: 
https://techcrunch.com/2015/09/05/the-future-is-african/ [Accessed 12th 
February 2019] 
O’Leary  R. & Ramsden A. (2002). Virtual Learning Environments. Learning and 
Teaching 
Support 
Network 
Generic 
Centre. 
Available 
from: 
https://economicsnetwork.ac.uk/handbook/printable/vle_v5.pdf 
Orbell S., Hodgkins S. & Sheeran P. (1997). Implementation intentions and the 
theory of planned behavior. Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, 23:9, 
pp. 
945-954. 
Available 
from: 
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0146167297239004 
Osiakwan E. M. (2017). The KINGS of Africa’s Digital Economy. Ndemo B. & Weiss 
T. (eds). Digital Kenya. Palgrave Studies of Entrepreneurship in Africa. 
London, 
Palgrave 
Macmillian, 
pp. 
55-92. 
Available 
from: 
https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1057/978-1-137-57878-
5_3#copyrightInformation 
Piperopoulos P. & Dimov D. (2015). Burst bubbles or build steam? 
Entrepreneurship 
education, 
entrepreneurial 
self-efficacy, 
and 
entrepreneurial intentions. Journal of Small Business Management, 53:4, pp. 
970-985. 
Available 
from: 
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jsbm.12116 
Pittaway L. Rodriguez-Falcon E., Aiyegbayo O. & King A. (2011). The role of 
entrepreneurship clubs and societies in entrepreneurial learning. 
International Small Business Journal, 29:1, pp. 37-57. Available from: 
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0266242610369876 

 
 
Radović-Marković, M., Nelson-Porter B. & Omolaja M. (2009). The new alternative 
women’s entrepreneurship education: e-learning and virtual universities. 
Journal of Women’s Entrepreneurship and Education, 1:1-2, pp. 1-12. 
Available from: http://ebooks.ien.bg.ac.rs/id/eprint/432 
Rivers J., Rivers P. & Hazell V. (2015). Africa and Technology in Higher Education: 
Trends, Challenges, and Promise. International Educative Research 
Foundation 
and 
Publisher, 
3:5, 
pp. 
14-31. 
Available 
from: 
http://www.ijier.net/ijier/article/view/354 
Robb A., Valerio A. & Parton B. (2014). Entrepreneurship Education and Training: 
Insights from Ghana, Kenya, and Mozambique. World Bank Studies. 
Washington 
DC: 
World 
Bank. 
Available 
from: 
https://elibrary.worldbank.org/doi/abs/10.1596/978-1-4648-0278-2 
Robinson B. & Sexton A. (1994). The effect of education and experience on self-
employment success. Journal of Business Venturing, 9:2, pp. 141-156. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/088390269490006X 
Schere R., Brodzinski J. & Wiebe F. (1990). Entrepreneur career selection and 
gender: a socialization approach. Journal of Small Business Management, 
28:2, 
p. 
37. 
Available 
from: 
http://search.proquest.com/openview/373842fc404f7cb1d411c96f0b9315
85/1?pq-origsite=gscholar&cbl=49244 
Sheppard H., Hartwick J. & Warshaw R. (1988). The theory of reasoned action: A 
meta-analysis of past research with recommendations for modifications and 
future research. Journal of Consumer Research, 15:3, pp. 325-343. Available 
from: https://academic.oup.com/jcr/article-abstract/15/3/325/1793930 
Scherer, R. F., Brodzinski, J. D., & Wiebe, F. A. (1990). Entrepreneur career 
selection and gender: A socialization approach. Journal of small business 
management, 28(2), 37. 
Shabaya J. & Konadu-Agyemang K. (2004). Unequal access, unequal participation: 
some spatial and socio-economic dimensions of the gender gap in education 
in Africa with special reference to Ghana, Zimbabwe and Kenya. Compare: A 
Journal of Comparative and International Education, 34:2, pp. 395-424. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/0305792042000294805 
Solomon G., Duffy S. & Tarabishy A. (2002). The Stata of Entrepreneurship 
Education in the United States: A nationwide survey and analysis. 
International Journal of Entrepreneurship Education, 1:1, 65-86. Available 
from: 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/281196335_The_State_of_Entr
epreneurship_Education_in_the_United_States_A_Nationwide_Survey_an
d_Analysis 

 
 
Soutaris V., Zerbinati S. & Al-Laham A. (2007). Do Entrepreneurship Programmes 
Raise Entrepreneurial Intention of Science and Engineering Students? The 
Effect of Learning, Inspiration, and Resources. Journal of Business Venturing, 
22:4, 
pp. 
566-591. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0883902606000486 
Tulinayo F., Ssentume P. & Najjuma R. (2018). Digital technologies in resource 
constrained higher institutions of learnings: a study on students’ acceptance 
and usability. International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher 
Education, 
15:36. 
Available 
from: 
https://educationaltechnologyjournal.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/
s41239-018-0117-y 
Turker D. & Selcuk S. (2008). Which factors affect entrepreneurial intention of 
university students? Journal of European Industrial Training, 33:2, pp. 142-
159. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/pdf/10.1108/03090590910939049 
Turker D., Onvural B., Kursunluoglu E., & Pinar C. (2005). Entrepreneurial 
propensity: A field study on the Turkish university students. International 
Journal of Business Economics and Management, 1:3, pp. 15-27. Available 
from: http://www.academia.edu/download/33604060/manuscript.doc 
Unwin T., Kleessen B., Hollow D., Williams J., Oloo L., Alwala J., Mutimucuio I., 
Eduardo F. & Muianga X. (2010). Digital learning management systems in 
Africa: myths and realities. Open Learning: The Journal of Open, Distance and 
e-Learning, 
25:1, 
pp. 
5-23. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/02680510903482033 
Unwin, T. (2008). Survey of e-Learning in Africa. E-Learning Africa, pp. 1-10. 
Available from: http://www.gg.rhul.ac.uk/Ict4d/elareport.pdf 
Valerio A., Parton B. & Robb A. (2014). Entrepreneurship Education and Training 
Programs around the World: Dimensions for Success. Washington DC: World 
Bank. Available from: https://elibrary.worldbank.org/doi/abs/10.1596/978-
1-4648-0202-7 
Wang C. & Wong P. (2004). Entrepreneurial interest of university students in 
Singapore. 
Technovation 
24:2, 
pp. 
163-172. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0166497202000160 
Wilson F., Kickul J. & Marlino D. (2007). Gender, Entrepreneurial Self-Efficacy, and 
Entrepreneurial Career Intentions: Implications for Entrepreneurship 
Education.  Entrepreneurship Training and Practice, 31:3, pp. 387-406. 
Available 
from: 
https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1540-
6520.2007.00179.x 
Young L. (2003). Bridging theory and practice: Developing guidelines to facilitate 
the design of computer-based learning environment. Canadian Journal of 
Learning 
and 
Technology, 
29:3. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.learntechlib.org/p/43192/ 

 
 
Zellweger T., Sieger P. & Halter F. (2011). Should I stay or should I go? Career 
choice intentions of students with family business background. Journal of 
Business 
Venturing, 
26:5, 
pp. 
521-536. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S088390261000042X 
Zhang D., Zhao J., Zhou L. & Nunamaker J. (2004). Can e-learning replace classroom 
learning?. Communications of the ACM, 47:5, pp. 75-79. Available from: 
https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/b91b/48e33d6b0591e156b2ad63590cd8
0299a2c3.pdf 
Young L. (2003). Bridging theory and practice: Developing guidelines to facilitate 
the design of computer-based learning environment. Canadian Journal of 
Learning 
and 
Technology, 
29:3. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.learntechlib.org/p/43192/ 
 
 
 

 
 
Tables and Figures 
Table 1: The Key Dimensions of Traditional Classroom Learning vs. Virtual 
Learning Environments 
Dimension 
Traditional Classroom 
Learning 
Virtual Learning 
Environment 
Efficiency 
TCL is associated with limited 
efficiency due to its rising 
education and training costs, 
and stagnant student scores. 
Zhang et al. (2004) suggest 
that TCL’s low efficiency is 
related to:  
• A rigid and outdated 
one-size-fits-all 
format that does not 
fit 
new 
learners’ 
preferences 
and 
needs; 
• High costs associated 
with brick-and-mortar 
maintenance, 
teaching 
staff, 
and 
updating 
and 
redistributing 
the 
latest materials. 
VLE is associated with rising 
efficiencies due to its low 
infrastructure and training 
costs, and increasing learning 
output. Zhang et al. (2004) 
argue that VLE’s efficiency is 
related 
to 
web-based 
collaborative 
tools 
that 
leverage: 
• Learner 
customized 
and flexible learning 
environment, 
based 
on standardized levels 
of content quality; 
• Cost-effective model, 
offering 
a 
broader 
selection 
of 
knowledge that can be 
easily updated. 
Effectiveness 
TCL is associated with low 
effectiveness due to its high 
reliance on teacher-centered 
learning. Phillips et al. (2008) 
claim 
that 
TCL’s 
low 
effectiveness is related to: 
• One-way teacher-led 
communication, 
where students are 
perceived as empty 
canvas expected to 
passively 
receive 
knowledge 
from 
teachers’ 
systematic 
and scripted lesson 
plans and to replicate 
it 
in 
summative 
evaluation; 
VLE is associated with high 
effectiveness due to the 
opportunity 
for 
student-
centered 
learning. 
Young 
(2003) posits that VLE’s high 
effectiveness is related to: 
• Group learning in a 
highly 
personalized 
environment that can 
be both one-to-many 
and 
many-to-one, 
where students are 
encouraged to create 
meaning from new 
information and to 
connect 
with 
it 
through the reflection 
of prior experiences; 

 
 
• Knowledge is limited 
to the teacher and 
students are excluded 
from the process of 
reflection 
and 
meaning creation.  
• Active 
and 
collaborative creation 
of knowledge where 
intellectual 
partnerships 
among 
teachers and students 
thrive 
and 
critical 
thinking and higher-
order 
learning 
are 
achieved. 
Inclusiveness 
TCL is associated with non-
inclusive learning due to 
student’s access to knowledge 
being highly conditioned by 
household 
income 
and 
entrenched perspectives on 
gender roles. Shabaya and 
Konadu-Agyemang 
(2004) 
maintain 
that 
TCL’s 
low 
inclusiveness is related to: 
• High costs associated 
with TCL education 
raise education tuition 
fees to a level that it 
becomes a privilege 
for few, rather than a 
right for all; 
• The male-dominated 
learning 
environment, where 
education for women 
(homemakers 
and 
caregivers) is generally 
not 
regarded 
as 
important 
as 
education 
for 
men 
(resource owners and 
breadwinners). 
VLE is associated with more 
inclusive learning due to the 
opportunity for on-demand 
learning 
and 
virtual 
participation. 
Radović-
Marković, Nelson-Porter, and 
Omolaja (2009) argue that 
VLE’s higher inclusiveness is 
related to: 
• Lower-costs 
and 
customized 
content 
yield the opportunity 
for 
massive 
online 
participation, 
yet 
fostering 
individual 
and 
collaborative 
learning; 
• Greater flexibility in 
terms 
of 
time, 
location, educational 
program 
selection 
make 
learning 
a 
universal interest and 
right. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
The Support Function in Ecosystems: A 
Case Study of Social Entrepreneurial 
Ecosystems in Bolivia and Ecuador  
 
Abel Alan Diaz Gonzalez1,*, Nikolay A. Dentchev1  
 
1Vrije Universiteit Brussel 
 
*adiazgon@vub.be 
 
Abstract  
Social Entrepreneurs are driven by the idea of addressing social needs through 
innovative business models and leadership, and thus providing novel solutions to 
improve the capacity of our society.  To succeed, they need to be surrounded by 
an ecosystem to provide them with access to different type of resources to run 
and scale their business models. Through a qualitative study in 6 cities and rural 
communities in Bolivia (6 focus groups and 41 interviews) and in Guayaquil, 
Ecuador (19 interviews and 3 focus groups) this paper aims at contributing with a 
detailed analysis on the different factors related to the establishment, evolution 
and operation of supportive entrepreneurial ecosystems in support of social 
entrepreneurs.  
Keywords 
Social Entrepreneurship, Entrepreneurial Ecosystems, Support 
Introduction   
Social Entrepreneurs are driven by the idea of addressing social needs through 
innovative business models and leadership, and thus providing novel solutions to 
improve the capacity of our society (Austin et al, 2006; Dees et al. 2004).  They rely 
on the existence of multiple resources, such as (a) support networks, partnerships 
and alliances, (b) financial, cultural and institutional support, and (c) access to 
human - and working- capital, needed to achieve such mission (Montgomery et 

 
 
al., 2012; Cohen, 2006).  Thus, entrepreneurial ecosystems can provide social 
entrepreneurs with access to different kind of resources due to their network 
composition (B-Hert, 2006).  
 
To date, however, only few studies have investigated in depth the composition 
and structure of supportive ecosystems for social entrepreneurs (Roundy, 2017). 
Existing literature in the field provide us with limited insights on the support 
function within ecosystems, including only few arguments on how social 
entrepreneurs benefit from this type of support. Therefore, the objective of this 
paper is to contribute with a detailed analysis on the different factors related to 
the establishment, evolution and operation of supportive entrepreneurial 
ecosystems in support of social entrepreneurs 
The needs of Social Entrepreneurs 
Social entrepreneurs use market-based strategies and innovation to address social 
or environmental needs (Certo & Miller, 2008; Dees, 2007). Unfortunately, they 
are confronted several constraints (Hemingway, 2005).  There is a large volume of 
published studies describing critical challenges and faced by social entrepreneurs. 
We summarize them in the following table:  
Type of challenge 
Authors 
discussing 
it 
on 
the 
literature 
Mission, legal form and strategy 
Lack of orientation, mission drift, difficulties to formulate 
sustainable short- and long-term strategy, inadequate 
legal forms 
Austin, Stevenson, & Wei-Skillern, 
2006; Certo & Miller, 2008; Dees, 
1998; Honig, 1998; Mair, Robinson, & 
Hockerts, 2006; Wei-skillern, 2006 
Education and competences  
Lack of managerial and financial knowledge; difficulties 
when matching mission and values; strong and specific 
competences needed to achieve social impact 
Certo & Miller, 2008; G. Dees, 2007; 
Letaifa, 2016; Volkmann, Tokarski, & 
Ernst, 2008; Webb, Kistruck, Ireland, 
& Ketchen, 2010; Wincent et al., 2016 
Funding and resource attraction 
difficulties to manage and achieve financial sustainability; 
complex ways to access to capital; challenges of attraction 
Bloom & Dees, 2008; Letaifa, 2016; 
Roundy, 2017; Shaw & Carter, 2007; 
Wincent et al., 2016 

 
 
investment attraction; complex efforts to access to 
financial services 
Human resources: 
Selection and engagement of right profile of people; 
relying on volunteers; challenges to compete with 
market rates in terms of salaries 
Dees, 2012; Letaifa, 2016; Roundy, 
2017; 
Sharir 
& 
Lerner, 
2006; 
Totterman & Sten, 2005 
Evaluation and performance 
Difficulties to establish/determinate performance 
indicators and impact on social or environmental 
projects; social return on investment is often 
subjective 
(Ardichvili, Cardozo, & Ray, 2003; 
Autio, Kenney, Mustar, Siegel, & 
Wright, 2014) 
Table 1: Challenges and needs of Social Entrepreneurs 
The first challenge is related to their mission, legal form and strategy. Different 
from commercial entrepreneurs, social mission is a central attribute for social 
entrepreneurs (Austin et al., 2006).  Drift in the social orientation is one of the 
most important concerns, as some social entrepreneurs tend loose the focus of 
their mission with the maturity of their organization (Wronka, 2013). This concern 
is also related with subsequent strategic choices related to generating or not 
income (profit), develop parallel profit and non-profit activities (hybrid businesses) 
or only adopt a non-profit type of organization.  
The second challenge is related to education and competences of social 
entrepreneurs. Social entrepreneurs often lack managerial and business skills 
(Dees, 2007).  Some of them even recognize not to have post-secondary education 
at all. This lack of formal education also represents a barrier for them in the daily 
business activities, but in the strategic development of their venture (Mair et al., 
2006). Funding and resource attraction are the third challenge and one of the main 
obstacles for social entrepreneurs. They are constantly looking to capture the 
stakeholder’s interest and trustworthiness to gain the support for their social 
venture (Shaw and Carter, 2007). Moreover, their social missions are often seen 
as opposed to the creation of economic value and profitability (Mair & Martí, 
2006). In addition to this, access to finance (venture capital, investment funds, 
banks or investors) requires competences and time effort that is often not feasible 
for social entrepreneurs (Casson & Della Giusta, 2007).  

 
 
The attraction of qualified human resources for social entrepreneurs is often a 
challenge. Social entrepreneurs often cannot afford to pay market rates to 
employees or be competitive with benefits packaged offered by others (Sharir & 
Lerner, 2006). In addition to this, it appears difficult to attract the right profile of 
people, sharing their same values, ideas, vision, and able to create social 
connections and alliances based on limited resources (Volkmann et al., 2008). 
Moreover, social entrepreneurs rely often on volunteers, whose commitment and 
availability can fluctuate over time.  
And last but not least, the performance evaluation of social entrepreneurs is 
hardly based on economic indicators, while the social impact measurement is a 
complex, subjective and insufficiently adopted in practice (Mair & Martí, 2006).  
How do social entrepreneurs address these needs? 
Social entrepreneurs can support organizations such as incubators, coworking 
spaces, accelerators within their ecosystem (Williams & Lee, 2009), but also from 
other mechanisms of providing support to their needs in terms of knowledge, 
mentoring, networking, capital providers, legal and accounting advise and 
technical services (Roundy, 2017). Some of the organisations within the ecosystem 
also support social entrepreneurs by promoting their services and connecting 
them with a broader network (Kabbaj & El Ouazzani Ech Hada, 2016).   
 
The reliability and accessibility of resources (e.g. physical infrastructures, 
intellectual, human and financial resources) is another challenge for social 
entrepreneurs (Biggeri, Testi, & Bellucci, 2017). For this purpose, a stable structure 
and a strong network can help social entrepreneurs (Lumpkin, et al., 2013). For 
example, collaboration and alliances between private firms, NGOs, government, 
suppliers and customers (Dahan, Doh, Oetzel, and Yaziji, 2010) with social 
entrepreneurs would be recommended. A successful ecosystem is therefore,  one 
where different resources are deployed, accessible and shared among all different 
members (Ozdemir, Moran, Zhong, & Bliemel, 2016). The presence of the scholars, 
experts and volunteers is considered as a key aspect to facilitate the presence of 
these resources support entrepreneurship processes due to their contribution to 
knowledge generation, through research and innovation. (Boh, De-Hann and 
Strom, 2015). 

 
 
Biggeri et al., (2017) claim that a supportive ecosystem is one in which all 
participants, especially social entrepreneurs, are able to operate with minimum 
constraints and with all kind of different resources available (funds, volunteers, 
and skilled human resources). One key player in ecosystem offering support to 
social entrepreneurs are incubators (Letaifa, 2016). They offer not only office 
facilities but also consulting, training, publicity, connection with investors and 
networking in the related areas (Roundy, 2017). Some incubators are specialized 
in working only with social entrepreneurs. These social incubators present 
significant 
advantages, 
more 
specifically 
in 
coaching, 
business 
and 
entrepreneurship education, interchange with other social entrepreneurs and 
strategic stakeholders, and the possibility to obtain funding (Casasnovas and 
Bruno, 2013). One of the major contributions from incubators to social 
entrepreneurs are the development of new business knowledge and the 
possibility to get coached by experts or mentors in the field (Roundy, 2017).  
Methodology 
We have conducted a qualitative study in 6 cities and rural communities in Bolivia 
(6 focus groups and 41 interviews) and in Guayaquil, Ecuador (19 interviews and 3 
focus groups).  The selection of these locations was based on the opportunities 
and challenging conditions in terms of entrepreneurial activity evidenced by these 
countries. According to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) in both 
countries, a high percentage of start-ups are initiated by people pertaining to a 
low socio-economic level, with low schooling level, and confronted with different 
challenges in terms of progressing or scaling their business ideas. Using a semi 
structured interview protocol, we have studied several elements related to the 
support function of ecosystems for social entrepreneurs, including different type 
of stakeholders involved in the entrepreneurial ecosystem such us government 
institutions, academics and researchers, incubators, NGO’s, banks, social and 
vulnerable entrepreneurs, local leaders, international organizations related to 
social entrepreneurship, and other entities promoting entrepreneurship at local 
level in those communities.  
Preliminary findings 
This paper considers the support function of ecosystems as a necessary condition 
for the creation of value propositions.  Some of the results obtained from the 
preliminary analysis shows some important patterns in terms of the support 
function of ecosystems. Social Entrepreneurs claim to be aware of their business 
model, including their potential customers, activities and opportunities for 

 
 
growth. However, they are determinant to say that they are willing to receive the 
support needed in terms of knowledge (coaching, mentorship, professional 
development) and this is marked as the first need often expressed. Secondly, we 
identify that governments, although they are doing different activities to promote 
and sustain entrepreneurial development and activities among their local 
environments, is still seen far from bringing their policies and efforts to the service 
of the community and relevant stakeholders. This condition retains their local 
ecosystems to accelerate innovation, growth and to offer further opportunities to 
local social and vulnerable entrepreneurs.  In terms of organizations offering 
support, the presence of incubators and other entities working with 
entrepreneurs is something recently incorporated to local ecosystems. These 
organizations (co working spaces, incubators) along with activities (events, 
workshops, fairs) offer a space for networking, promotion and visibility to the 
business models of social entrepreneurs. Despite these efforts, different 
stakeholders argue that there is much more potential to be unleashed, as there 
are many more resources underused or underexplored within their ecosystems. 
We expect to present our full paper version of this research during the NBM 
conference in Berlin conference ad receive valuable feedback for our ideas.  
References 
Ardichvili, A., Cardozo, R., & Ray, S. (2003). A theory of entrepreneurial 
opportunity identification and development. Journal of Business Venturing, 
18(1), 105–123. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0883-9026(01)00068-4 
Austin, J., Stevenson, H., & Wei-Skillern, J. (2006). Social and commercial 
entrepreneurship: Same, different, or both? Entrepreneurship: Theory and 
Practice, 30(1), 1–22. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-6520.2006.00107.x 
Autio, E., Kenney, M., Mustar, P., Siegel, D., & Wright, M. (2014). Entrepreneurial 
innovation: The importance of context. Research Policy, 43(7), 1097–1108. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2014.01.015 
B-Hert. (2006). Universities ’ third mission : communities engagement. 
Business/Higher Education Round Table (B-HERT) Position Paper Nr. 11, (11), 
8. 
Biggeri, M., Testi, E., & Bellucci, M. (2017). Enabling Ecosystems for Social 
Enterprises and Social Innovation: A Capability Approach Perspective. 
Journal of Human Development and Capabilities, 18(2), 299–306. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/19452829.2017.1306690 
Bloom, P. N., & Dees, G. (2008). Cultivate your Ecosystem. Stanford Social 
Innovation Review, Winter, 47–53. 

 
 
Casson, M., & Della Giusta, M. (2007). Entrepreneurship and social capital: 
Analysing the impact of social networks on entrepreneurial activity from a 
rational action perspective. International Small Business Journal, 25(3), 220–
244. https://doi.org/10.1177/0266242607076524 
Certo, S. T., & Miller, T. (2008). Social entrepreneurship: Key issues and concepts. 
Business 
Horizons, 
51(4), 
267–271. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2008.02.009 
Cohen, B. (2006). Sustainable valley entrepreneurial ecosystems. Business 
Strategy and the Environment, 15(1), 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.428 
Dees, G. (1998). The meaning of social entrepreneurship. Innovation, 2006(11-4-
06), 1–6. https://doi.org/10.2307/2261721 
Dees, G. (2007). Taking Social Entrepreneurs Seriously. Transaction Social Science 
and Modern Society, 44, 24–31. 
Dees, J. G. (2012). A Tale of Two Cultures: Charity, Problem Solving, and the Future 
of Social Entrepreneurship. Journal of Business Ethics, 111(3), 321–334. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-012-1412-5 
Hemingway, C. A. (2005). Personal values as a catalyst for corporate social 
entrepreneurship. 
Journal 
of 
Business 
Ethics, 
60(3), 
233–249. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-005-0132-5 
Honig, B. (1998). What determines success? Examining the human, financial, and 
social capital of Jamaican microentrepreneurs. Journal of Business 
Venturing, 13(5), 371–394. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0883-9026(97)00036-
0 
Kabbaj, M. M., & El Ouazzani Ech Hada, K. (2016). a Study of the Social 
Entrepreneurship 
Ecosystem: 
the 
Case 
of 
Morocco. 
Journal 
of 
Developmental 
Entrepreneurship, 
21(04), 
1650021. 
https://doi.org/10.1142/S1084946716500217 
Letaifa, S. Ben. (2016). How social entrepreneurship emerges, develops and 
internationalises during political and economic transitions. European J. of 
International 
Management, 
10(4), 
455. 
https://doi.org/10.1504/EJIM.2016.077424 
Lumpkin, G. T., Moss, T. W., Gras, D. M., Kato, S., & Amezcua, A. S. (2013). 
Entrepreneurial processes in social contexts: How are they different, if at all? 
Small Business Economics, 40(3), 761–783. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11187-
011-9399-3 
Mair, J., & Martí, I. (2006). Social entrepreneurship research: A source of 
explanation, prediction, and delight. Journal of World Business, 41(1), 36–
44. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jwb.2005.09.002 
Mair, J., Robinson, J., & Hockerts, K. (2006). Introduction. Social Entrepreneurship, 
1–13. https://doi.org/10.1057/9780230625655 

 
 
Montgomery, A. W., Dacin, P. A., & Dacin, M. T. (2012). Collective Social 
Entrepreneurship: Collaboratively Shaping Social Good. Journal of Business 
Ethics, 111(3), 375–388. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-012-1501-5 
Ozdemir, S. Z., Moran, P., Zhong, X., & Bliemel, M. J. (2016). Reaching and 
Acquiring Valuable Resources: The Entrepreneur’s Use of Brokerage, 
Cohesion, and Embeddedness. Entrepreneurship: Theory and Practice, 40(1), 
49–79. https://doi.org/10.1111/etap.12103 
Roundy, P. (2017). Social entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial ecosystems. 
International 
Journal 
of 
Social 
Economics, 
44(9), 
1252; 
1267. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/JHOM-09-2016-0165 
Sharir, M., & Lerner, M. (2006). Gauging the success of social ventures initiated by 
individual social entrepreneurs. Journal of World Business, 41(1), 6–20. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jwb.2005.09.004 
Shaw, E., & Carter, S. (2007). Social entrepreneurship: Theoretical antecedents 
and empirical analysis of entrepreneurial processes and outcomes. Journal 
of Small Business and Enterprise Development, 14(3), 418–434. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/14626000710773529 
Totterman, H., & Sten, J. (2005). Business Incubation and Social Capital. 
International 
Small 
Business 
Journal, 
23(5), 
487–511. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0266242605055909 
Volkmann, C., Tokarski, K. O., & Ernst, K. (2008). Social Entrepreneurship and Social 
Business. Elektronische Daten. An Introd...: Discovery Service for Universität 
St. Gallen, Bibliothek. Springler Gabler. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-8349-
7093-0 ISBN 
Webb, J. W., Kistruck, G. M., Ireland, R. D., & Ketchen, D. J. (2010). The 
entrepreneurship process in base of the pyramid markets: The case of 
multinational 
enterprise/nongovernment 
organization 
alliances. 
Entrepreneurship: 
Theory 
and 
Practice, 
34(3), 
555–581. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-6520.2009.00349.x 
Wei-skillern, J. (2006). E T & P Entrepreneurship : or Both ? Soldiers. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/a0028279 
Williams, C., & Lee, S. H. (2009). Resource allocations, knowledge network 
characteristics 
and 
entrepreneurial 
orientation 
of 
multinational 
corporations. 
Research 
Policy, 
38(8), 
1376–1387. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2009.05.007 
Wincent, J., Thorgren, S., Anokhin, S., Sullivan Mort, G., Weerawardena, J., Jack, S. 
S. L., … Journal, M. (2016). Article information : Journal of Business 
Venturing, 18(1), 1–22. https://doi.org/10.1002/smj 
Wronka, M. (2013). Analyzing the success of social enterprises - critical success 
factors perspective. Management, Knowledge and Learning International 
Conference, (1), 593–605. 

 
 
Value-Based Pricing Applied By Dutch 
Social Entrepreneurs 
 
Gloria van Ewijk*, Prof dr. Sharda Nandram,  
 
Life Impact Company; Nyenrode Business University  
& Vrije University Amsterdam 
*info@ilife.nu 
 
+ This paper has been submitted at OMRISE Conference Series on 
Integrating Simplification: the rise of Integrative Self-Managed 
enterprises at Banasthali University in Jaipur, 2017. 
 
Abstract  
This paper provides an exploration and practical implications regarding the ways 
social entrepreneurs implement social value through their pricing strategies, and 
more broadly their customers. It offers a different perspective to innovate the 
business model by using new pricing strategies (Lüttgens & Diener, 2016). Setting 
the right price is important for every entrepreneur, but it is one of the most 
neglected tools in the marketing, according to Hinterhuber (2003). Pricing is the 
only variable of the marketing mix that creates revenue and determines the 
competiveness of the company (De Toni et al., 2016). Most scholars consider 
value-based pricing superior to cost-based and competitive-based pricing 
strategies. However, many companies neglect the use of value-based pricing in 
their business model (Liozu, et al., 2015).  
Pricing strategy need to be consistent with the company’s purpose and customers’ 
needs. The reality however is that most entrepreneurs choose traditional pricing 
strategies like cost-plus pricing and competition-based pricing without considering 
value based pricing. Raju (2010) suggests that it’s estimated that only about 8% of 
American businesses can be considered sophisticated players in pricing strategies. 

 
 
We do not have such data for other parts of the world yet. The implementation of 
value-based 
pricing 
requires 
deep 
organizational 
changes 
that 
have 
transformational power for the company and the employees. It most often has to 
shift from cost or competitive based to customer value (Liozu, et al., 2015). 
With the growing online information on prices, customers have more access to 
more pricing information. Customers are becoming savvy and price sensitive, 
especially in times of crisis. There is also a growing need among entrepreneurs to 
change the traditional way of doing business. Social entrepreneurs are the ones 
looking for new business models and pricing strategies that fit their business 
purpose. They are experimenting with new pricing strategies and are actively 
changing the traditional economy. 
Keywords  
Value Based Pricing, Social Entrepreneurs, pricing strategies 
1. Introduction 
Pricing is one of the most neglected tools in the marketing industry, according to 
Hinterhuber (2003). The subject of pricing has also been receiving less attention 
from both practitioners and academic scholars, which seems odd, since an average 
5% price increase leads to a 22% improvement in operating profits. Pricing is 
considered a powerful tool for marketers. Pricing is the only variable of the 
marketing mix that creates revenue and determines the competiveness of the 
company (De Toni et al., 2016). Most scholars consider value-based pricing 
superior to cost-based and competitive-based pricing strategies. However, many 
companies neglect the use of value-based pricing (Liozu et al., 2015).  
To effectively start pricing products and services strategically, there is a need to 
understand the wishes and needs of the customer. Understanding the customer 
is vital, instead of product led thinking the focus should be on customer led 
thinking. Starting at the opposite side of the spectrum (Nagle, Hogan & Zale, 2011), 
it also requires deeper understanding of the market and the competition.  
 
 

 
 
 
 
Pricing can be divided in three main categories: cost-based pricing, competition-
based pricing and value-based pricing (De Toni et al., 2016). The definition for 
describing value-based pricing is: “Setting prices primarily based upon perceived 
or estimated value by the customer” (Macdivitt & Wilkinson, 2012). Another 
definition with more emphasize on customer is by Hinterhuber (2008a: 42), 
namely “Customer value-based pricing approaches use the value a product or 
service deliver to a predefined segment of customers as the main factor for setting 
prices”. According to Magnus Johansson, there are two value definition namely 
customer perceived value and differentiation value (Hinterhuber & Liozu, 2018).   
Value based pricing (VBP) is applicable for every entrepreneur. But one could 
imagine that value based pricing is more in alignment with the mission of social 
entrepreneurs. Social entrepreneurs are also developing new business models 
with a focus on both social- and profit goals. This is challenging and generally 
requires more time compared to more traditional business models. The research 
done by Verloop (2011) shows that 42% of Social Enterprises is not profitable, 27% 
not even after five years. She found that many social enterprises struggle to grow 
beyond the professionalizing phase and get stuck in what is sometimes called “the 
valley of death” (Verloop, 2011). They face four main challenges there: 
• Untraditional and complex business models; 
• Management development issues; 
• Limited access to (venture) capital, and; 
• Legislation issues. 
Product-led cycle 
Customers
Values
Prices
Costs
Products
Products
Costs
Prices
Values
Customers
Customer-led cycle 

 
 
Social entrepreneurs are often ahead of traditional businesses in looking for 
opportunities (Porter & Kramer, 2011). Social entrepreneurs are passionate 
advocates of their social mission and are combining that with a business sense for 
innovation and growing new business models with strong determination (Dees, 
1998). They aim to improve systems, invent and disseminate new ways of 
approaches and accelerate sustainable solutions that create social value next to 
economic value. Social entrepreneurs are emerging in focusing on meeting the 
needs of their customers (Porter & Kramer, 2011). They can be seen as change 
agents in developed economies who are willing to apply innovative and pricing 
methods. These pricing methods make them interesting subjects for research. 
The main reason for this paper is to gain more knowledge and insights on why and 
how social entrepreneurs choose value based pricing as their pricing strategy. 
Furthermore, we want to learn more about the implications of using VBP. 
Therefore, we selected 10 Dutch social entrepreneurs to gain more insights on 
their conviction about VBP as a revenue model. The outcome of this research will 
contribute to a better understanding of the use of VBP as an innovative pricing 
strategy in the context of social entrepreneurship. This paper is probably unique 
as it focuses on both social entrepreneurs and value-based pricing strategies. This 
poses great challenges because both topics are relatively new and there is limited 
scholarly information available. At the same time, this research has a practical 
relevance. It provides information to social entrepreneurs to review their own 
pricing strategies, which enables them to choose new pricing strategies that fit the 
values of their company and help them avoid the ‘valley of death’. VBP may enable 
them to potentially gain competitive advantage and create a unique customer 
proposition. In the following sections, we will address the topics of social 
entrepreneurship and value creation followed by pricing strategies and more 
specific a value based pricing and its different forms. To position the idea of 
creating value to the customer we will introduce the Value Triad, as this will be 
applied as a framework for collecting the data on the topic of why social 
entrepreneurs use VBP. 
2. Theoretical background 
Defining social entrepreneurs 
Scholars don’t agree on the definition of social entrepreneurs. Banks has first 
introduced the term in 1972. He noted that social problems could be deployed by 
managerial practices (Hoogendoorn, 2011). This doesn’t mean that social ventures 

 
 
can’t make any profit, but it is not central to their value proposition (Martin & 
Osberg, 2007). Creating value is explicit and central to their organization, which 
results in a different mindset for the social entrepreneur. Wealth to them is not 
meaningful in itself. The definition used in the paper is given by Hoogendoorn 
(2011) is as follows: “Social entrepreneurs concerns individuals or organizations 
engaged in entrepreneurial activities with a social goal.” The main purpose of a 
social entrepreneur is to produce measurable impact by opening up new paths 
and unlocking society’s full potential to help stimulate social change.47  
Social entrepreneurs are different from business entrepreneurs. Figure 1 shows 
social enterprises and the difference in the impact they want to have and what 
their priorities are. 
 
 
Though the topic of capital among Dutch social enterprises has been studied 
(Verloop 2011), there is not enough information available about the social 
entrepreneurs and their experience with pricing strategies. There is however an 
emerging market for Dutch social enterprises. In the Netherlands there has been 
a rise of social entrepreneurs between 2013 – 2015, the growth has been around 
36 percent. The main reasons for the growth have been the elimination of judicial 
obstacles by the government, growing investment opportunities for social 
enterprises and the ambition of governmental organizations towards working with 
social enterprises.  At the same time, social companies are becoming increasingly 
popular. These social entrepreneurs are outperforming traditional companies and 
have many fans. There are many social enterprises like Tony Chocolony (slave free 
chocolate), The Colour Kitchen, Snappcar (sharing cars), Fairphone (‘honest’ 
phone) and Peerby (borrowing with neighbors). Companies seem to become more 
                                                 
47 http://www.pbs.org/opb/thenewheroes/whatis/ 
Figure 1: Social enterprise (Martin & Osberg, 2007) 

 
 
proactive and responsive to complex problems. The emerging young groups of 
innovators with more money to spend are challenging the old charity ways and 
the philanthropical industry. Being socially responsible seems to be accepted also 
in the mainstream entrepreneurship scholarly works thanks to pioneers like Ben 
& Jerry’s and The Body Shop (Hoogendoorn, 2011). This transformation is about 
the redirection of corporations from translating their purpose from profit towards 
shared values (Porter & Kramer, 2011).  
Value creation 
Understanding value is equally important because it will make it easier to 
understand the needs of the customer. It is good to know that value has two 
components, namely a perception, and an expectation. If customers have to 
choose between two products, they select the offer that captures most 
completely what they were looking for. This is based upon the expectation of the 
value that a product or service can deliver. And also their perception guides them 
further in their choices, which can be influenced by advertisement or a good 
feeling towards the product of service. A value approach demands a great 
commitment to innovation, creativity, and exploiting of entrepreneurs’ 
uniqueness (Macdivitt & Wilkinson, 2012).  
According to Koller et al. (2010), companies create value by investing capital to 
generate future cash flows at a rate of return that exceeds their cost of capital. If 
companies grow faster, they attract more capital at attractive rates of return. 
Consequently, they create more value. This implies that companies should only 
generate on invested capital greater than the cost of capital. This presents 
problems that many companies encounter, because they still have an outdated 
view on value creation, according to Porter & Kramer (2011). They ignore the 
needs of the customer and the long-term impact their activity has on the 
environment. Value is an important measurement in a market economy. In the 
traditional economy, the ability of a company to create value for its shareholders 
and the amount of value it creates are the most important measurements (Koller 
et al, 2010). A growing body of research claims that companies that maximize the 
value of their shareholders will create better jobs, more satisfied employees and 
will be sensitive to social corporate responsibility. Furthermore, value-focused 
companies want to ensure that human capital and natural resources are used 
correctly. There are therefore reasons to study how companies create value, 
according to Koller et al. (2010). Sharing value can be a solution to this challenge. 
It is the combination between the principle of the economic value and social 

 
 
values. This involves creating economic value in such a way that it also creates 
social value (Porter & Kramer, 2011). According to Porter & Kramer (2011), 
companies can create economic value by creating social value. There are three 
ways to do that namely, reconceiving products and markets, redefining 
productivity in the value chain and building supportive industry clusters at the 
company’s location. 
When connecting the success of a company to societal improvement, the dynamic 
of the market will change. It can potentially create differentiation and new 
markets. Social entrepreneurs can play a role in making this concept mainstream. 
They are pioneering new product concepts to meet societal needs. They are often 
ahead of traditional businesses in looking for opportunities. Most importantly, 
they also create economic value, instead of only social value (Porter & Kramer, 
2011). 
 
It can be a real challenge to incorporate value-based pricing in the business. 
Macdivitt & Wilkinson (2012) have tried to make the value more tangible, with 
developing the ‘Value Triad’. This concept is chosen to apply in this paper because 
it measures value in a concrete and tangible way. The Value Triad exist of three 
components: 
• Revenue Gains (RGs): the improvements in revenue that accrue to a 
customer as a result of the purchase and use of your products and service. 
Value to the 
customer 
Revenues gains 
Cost reduction 
Emotional  
contributions 
Source: Macdivitt and Wilkinson (2012) 
 Figure 2: Value Triad Concept 
Value to the  
customer 

 
 
• Cost Reductions (CRs): the ability to help a customer to reduce costs 
through the use of your product and service. 
• Emotional Contribution (EC): this is drawn from the ‘feel good factor’, such 
as reduction of “hassle”, peace of mind, increased confidence, greater 
safety, personal gain, trust, self-esteem, the absence of risk and so on. The 
emotional value has an influence on the improvement in the customer’s 
emotional satisfaction or the avoidance of a reduction of the emotional 
satisfaction. What is really important is what value it represents to the 
customer (Macdivitt & Wilkinson, 2012). 
Value based companies seek to identify the values created by the product or 
service they offer. They challenge the status quo and look closely at their market 
and its customers. They establish a price that is suitable for the customer what will 
help making a value based pricing strategy successful (Nagle et al. 2011). The 
winning combination is to manipulate some aspects of the price or performance 
to mobilize the unique capabilities of an entrepreneur in such a way that no 
competitor can possibly copy. It also enables to create a special solution to the 
customer's problem. It is important to have the competitive advantage to other 
companies (Macdivitt & Wilkinson, 2012). 
Pricing strategies 
Setting the right price can vary between industries and between customer 
segments. The impact of pricing on profitability is really high (Hinterhuber, 2003). 
But only a few managers have received training in making strategic pricing 
decisions. They are not taught to work proactively with their pricing strategy. They 
don’t look at their customer’s willingness to pay for the product or service. Pricing 
strategies share three principles according to Nagle et.al (2011). The principles of 
pricing strategy are value based, pro-active and profit driven.  
Value based is that there are differences in pricing for customers. For example, if 
the market demands a price reduction because of an economic crisis, the 
entrepreneur does not necessarily have to discount the price of the product. The 
product can still have value to the customer; even when the customer base is 
declining. It can still provide a better alternative than the competition. A proactive 
approach means that companies anticipate disruptive events like a crisis and 
develop strategies in advance to deal with them. For example, when a new 
competitor enters a market with a low-cost product, the entrepreneur can 

 
 
anticipate by offering a lower-priced service or loyalty program. Being sensitive to 
change within the market makes the entrepreneur competitive. A profit-driven 
approach is that the company evaluates its success of price management by its 
earnings relative to alternative investments, rather than by the revenue it 
generates relative to its competitors. For example, entrepreneurs need to be able 
to make bold decisions regarding their company to stay profitable. 
These principles are leading towards choosing a pricing strategy. There are three 
main categories: cost-based, competitive and value-based pricing that is applied 
by entrepreneurs. The best pricing strategy is not easily chosen by entrepreneurs. 
Cost (plus)-based is the easiest strategy. This pricing approach is derived from 
accounting methods and is the most popular method today. The ways to calculate 
the cost-based price is by taking the average cost-plus and add a percentage 
(Macdivitt & Wilkinson, 2012). The entrepreneur can set its own price totally 
independently from the competition. The reason why entrepreneurs use this 
pricing strategy is that it seems a fair way to calculate the right price. Another 
reason is that it ensures profitable sales because all costs are accounted for (Raju 
et.al. 2010). Doing this, however, creates a gap between price policies, the value 
proposition, and the customer needs. 
Figure 3: Pricing strategies 
 
The second popular pricing strategy is competition (market) based pricing. This is 
a strategy where we compare the features and specifications of the product with 
those of the competition. Based on the competition the right price is set. 
Subsequently, deciding your price on the competition will haven consequence for 
the positioning of your product or service (Macdivitt & Wilkinson, 2012). This 
strategy takes into account the market and it therefore seems to be safe. 
However, relying on the market can get the entrepreneurs in a passive mode. They 
are able to adjust their price, when the competitor changes its prices. The third 
Source: Macdivitt and Wilkinson (2012) 

 
 
pricing strategy is value-based pricing (VBP). When talking about the other pricing 
strategies, they fail to incorporate the delivered value of the service and products. 
VBP is still relatively new and sometimes difficult to understand for customers. 
Mainly because the prices are primarily based upon perceived or estimated value 
by the customer (Macdivitt & Wilkinson, 2012). Having a relationship built upon 
cost-based pricing creates a different dynamic between the buyer and seller. The 
customer may think that the seller is asking too much for the product, whereas 
the seller can feel frustrated by the demands of the customer. Both can be locked 
in a win-lose situation.  
Value-based pricing 
A great challenge of using VBP is the level of understanding by the customer and 
the ability to assess the value that is offered. Not every customer will acknowledge 
the value of the product or service; some will denigrate the offer by challenging 
the uniqueness and/or performance. To use VPB successfully, the entrepreneur 
needs customers that are willing to value to offer and recognize the impact. Pricing 
based upon value creates great challenges because prices can differ between 
customers and between customer’s segments (Macdivitt & Wilkinson, 2012). 
There are situations, according to Macdivitt & Wilkinson (2012), in which VBP can 
be successfully used: 
• New or enhanced products and services; 
• Products incorporating novel technology; 
• Products completely new to the world with no viable technology 
alternatives; 
• Existing products and services being introduced into a new geography, 
whether they represent a major improvement in performance compared 
with incumbent methods in that geography; 
• Where other companies in an industry are already using VBP to price their 
products and services; 
• More complex transactions requiring a customized approach based on 
clear understanding of the customer’s situation and context; 

 
 
• When we are able to meet a customer’s need through our ability to 
construct a unique package of products and services, even within a highly 
competitive market. 
According to Raju (2010), there are different price methods that can be used. Here 
is a selection of different value based pricing methods. The social entrepreneurs 
that were interviewed for this research have used (one of) or more of these 
methods: 
Outside in pricing 
Ask the customer upfront how much he/she 
thinks the solution is worth. 
Contingency pricing 
 
This pricing method is used when the customer is 
unable or unwilling to take all the risk of an 
unsatisfactory outcome. 
Retrospective pricing 
Retrospective pricing is used when the eventual 
outcome cannot be fully predicted 
Premium pricing 
 
In premium pricing, the entrepreneur deliberately 
establishes himself as the supplier of the highest 
priced product in the market segment that is 
targeted. 
Shared gain 
 
The payment is based on satisfactory outcomes 
and both parties share all the risk. If successful, 
both parties share in the gain according to 
predesigned and agreed upon formula.48 
Pay as you wish 
Let the customer decide what he wants to pay for 
the service or product.49 
Free pricing 
Don’t ask any money for the service or product 
(see www.google.com). 
                                                 
48 The first five pricing methods were based upon the book of Macdivitt and Wilkonson (2012) 
49 The definition of free and penny pricing are based upon the definition in the book of J. Raju and 
Z.J. Zhang (2010) 

 
 
Penny pricing 
Pricing a low price for your service and product 
(see www.1%club.org). 
Name Your Own Price 
The buyer specifies a price and a product and/or 
service 
and 
asks 
sellers 
to 
match 
that 
combination. NYOP is a special type of reverse 
auction originally pioneered by Priceline.com.50 
Subscription pricing 
The customer must pay a subscription price to 
have access to the product/service. The model 
was pioneered by magazines and newspapers but 
is now used by many businesses and websites 
(see Amazon).51 
Dynamic pricing 
Refers to a type offer or contract by a provider of 
a service or supplier of a commodity, in which the 
price depends on the time when the service is 
provided or the commodity is delivered.52 
Hybrid pricing 
Using cost-based pricing or competitive pricing in 
conjunction with VBP. 
 
3. RESEARCH METHOD 
Target population, sample and data collection procedures 
A selected group of Dutch 10 social entrepreneurs has been interviewed for 
approximately 60 minutes each. The social entrepreneurs were all working in the 
service industry within different sectors. The companies they owned were all B2C 
companies. The social entrepreneurs were selected based on pre-determined 
criteria, namely: 
                                                 
50 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Name_Your_Own_Price 
51 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subscription_business_model 
52 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timebased_pricing 

 
 
• The founders of the company. This is important because in the research 
the relationship between personal values and values of the company is 
being examined. 
• At least 50% of their income should be generated through VBP. This target 
is mainly set in order to have valid statements on the application of VBP. 
This will exclude the entrepreneurs who are experimenting with VBP or 
who are not taking any risks because they have enough funding through 
cost-based or competitive pricing. 
• They must have been working with VBP for longer than one year. It is 
important that the entrepreneurs are able to talk from their own 
experience. 
• They should be able to see if they have developed new products or markets 
or collaborations by using VBP. The feedback they got over the years from 
customers is important as well. 
The first entrepreneur involved in our research was a pioneer in this field of VBP. 
He mentioned other entrepreneurs for the topic of the research. This approach 
fits the snowballing method of defining the sample. Other entrepreneurs have 
been found through the internet and by posting requests for social entrepreneurs 
on different platforms. We used multiple strategies to find entrepreneurs who 
matched with all three criteria. 
This research is based upon a qualitative approach to research. The interviews 
were done face-to-face and recorded on tape. The overall objective is to gain more 
knowledge and insights on social entrepreneurs and their pricing strategy. The six 
questions (considered as topics) were used for framing the interview. 
Furthermore, at the end of each question, one open-ended question was asked to 
get more insights from the social entrepreneur. 
Data analysis process 
The data analysis has been done through a ‘daily interpretive analysis’53. The data 
was assembled; notes and videotapes of the interview were collected. The analysis 
has been done through evaluating the answers and categorizing them after the 
                                                 
53 http://www2.uwstout.edu/content/lib/thesis/2010/2010natolik.pdf 

 
 
respondents confirmed the content of the write-ups. The categorisation has been 
based on a conceptual model that was generated for the literature review 
4. RESULTS 
We present some main findings from the interviews to give insights in the type of 
answers we received in respect to the six questions from our framework and the 
open-ended questions. 
Perception of value based pricing by social entrepreneurs 
The answers were not coherent. Some entrepreneurs said that it wasn’t a real 
choice; it was just the logical thing to do when values are central to their 
organization. Others thought that when you co-create your products, your need 
prices that reflect that. There were also entrepreneurs who developed their 
pricing strategy while working. To them it was more a process or experiment that 
resulted in a value-based pricing strategy. Having an innovative pricing strategy 
seem to be a good solution to customer’s problems. 
The personal and companies' values of the social entrepreneurs  
There were personal values that the social entrepreneurs share, like integrity, 
honesty, freedom and being open. Others were more spiritual such as love, peace, 
passion, unity and trust. In relation to others, many of them were searching for 
authenticity, respect and bringing hearts together. The company values were 
almost the same as their personal value. The purpose of their company was 
mentioned as well. The company values were also about connectivity, making the 
world a better place; connect to change, solving problems, a transformation of 
people, delivering high quality, and the human factor. Most of the respondents 
mentioned freedom as an important company value.  
The Value Triad explained 
To approach this topic of freedom further we used the Value Triad consisting of 
three variables: the emotional contribution, the revenue of the customer and the 
ability of the customer to reduce their costs. The Value Triad helped translating 
value into a competitive advantage for the entrepreneur. According to the 
entrepreneurs, the emotional contribution is really high. This is due to the 
personal relation and focus on customer's need. For most of them, they consider 

 
 
their customers to be a business partners or prosumers. The growing revenue of 
the customer by using the product or services of the social entrepreneurs is not 
easy to connect. This is due to the mission of the entrepreneur, which is mostly 
not focused on traditional value creation or profit-driven. But when companies are 
directly linked to the revenue increase of the customer, the revenue is higher, 
because the companies are focused on solving problems, high-quality products or 
excel themselves. The social entrepreneurs set high standards for the products 
and services they provide. The cost reduction, on the other hand, is high with many 
entrepreneurs. Some create cost reduction because they are cheaper than the 
competition; others have cost reduction as a goal towards the customer. Yet some 
are creating cost reduction that is dependent on the needs of the customer. 
Unique value proposition 
In the value proposition, the values of the organization are reflected and therefore 
also the values of the entrepreneur. Some entrepreneurs have their values directly 
translated to their value proposition. For example, when they named the value 
freedom, they translated it into the decision of using a value-based pricing 
method. They wanted their customers to feel free and therefore choose to have 
customers name their own price or have no formal contracts. We have also looked 
at the use of the values through the concept of consistency, convenience, and 
customization. In general, the companies were mostly consistent in working from 
their core values or living their purpose. Also, the way they approach and think 
about the customer is very consistent. They think of the customer as a prosumer, 
a customer that co-creates products and services. The entrepreneurs try to 
reinvent themselves on a regular basis and try to deliver high-quality products or 
services. Most of them give a lot of convenience to their customer. For example, 
some entrepreneurs do work for free, to make sure that the result is good. 
Therefore, the level of customization of every company is scored as high. The 
customer’s need is central to their purpose and every product or service is custom 
made. Some have some degree of standardization, but most of them will co-create 
their product with the customer. They want to offer high-quality products and a 
real solution to the problems of the customer. 
Application of value based methods  
Almost every social entrepreneur used cost-based or competitive based pricing in 
combination with value-based pricing. Combining the different strategies is also 
known as hybrid pricing. Or they used a mix of value based pricing methods for 

 
 
different products or services. This makes it obviously complex to explain to the 
customer. Furthermore, they expressed that they were not aware of what this 
pricing strategy would cost their customers. Other remarks they made were: 
customers have to think more on what the value is of the service they get. The 
customers are therefor not certain if people take advantage of them or if they get 
more value. The remarks were mostly aimed at the more positive effects of value-
based pricing, like having a better customer relationship. They valued that higher 
than the negative effects. They thought that the benefits of using VBP were 
preparing the customer to a new future. However, there is no best practice of 
applying it, which can make it difficult for both parties involved. All of the 
entrepreneurs are pioneers with the use of the mix of pricing strategies. 
Therefore, they adjust and innovate their prices if it doesn’t work.  
Challenge & Benefits 
The lessons learned among the social entrepreneurs have been very different. 
There are a few who recognize the difficulties of their pricing strategy towards 
their customer. Some have experienced that traditional businesses are not ready 
to work with value-based pricing methods. It therefore takes a lot of extra work to 
follow the path and stay true to their pricing methods. Also, the customers have 
different needs and are not always ready to work so closely with the entrepreneur. 
There are a lot of positive insights that the entrepreneurs have gained. Some think 
that their unique style has enabled them to be more competitive. They think that 
the product will be better if there is a willingness to step outside the box. Some 
entrepreneurs see that the spin-offs of investing in customer relation or co-
creating products have translated in monetary value. They see added value in 
thinking in win-win situations. Another comment was that the more people are 
really involved; the better a community works and produces new opportunities.  
All of the entrepreneurs agreed that value based pricing created new 
opportunities, new markets, or collaborations. Mostly because they were able to 
use value-based pricing to co-create new unique products or services for the 
market. Some of them created new markets themselves. The entrepreneurs feel 
that they are responding to an actual need and that they also learn from their 
customers. They came up with new ideas for products or services based on the 
close interaction with their customer. A few of them are helping their customer 
(also entrepreneurs) in developing their own business. By helping them to become 
successful, they will in return come back with their customers. They will introduce 
them to the services and products of the entrepreneur. This feedback loop works 

 
 
for both of them, because the success of their customers translates into getting 
more successful themselves. They are able to sell their products and service to the 
customer’s customer. 
5. CONCLUDING  
The common denominator of the social entrepreneurs is that they all want to 
contribute to society. They share the sense of urgency of the failure of the 
traditional economy and the transformation of the new economy. All of them 
believe that we are entering a new era where values and what they means for 
business should have a more prominent place at the business’ agendas. In their 
paths towards transforming business, they like to share their knowledge and views 
on business innovation. This seems to fuel their entrepreneurial heart. 
The social entrepreneurs want to show what the future business should look like 
and how it can be driven by values and they want to create sustainable solutions 
where quality products/services and values are the main drivers. The lessons for 
them lies in the fact that they are paving the way towards a new economy, which 
results in going through barriers of the traditional economy. At the same time, 
they are convincing their customer to work in this new style. However, they are 
taking the risk of losing customers that can’t cope or understand this business 
approach. Still, they believe that value-based pricing delivers better products, 
results and customer relationship. 
Discussion 
The answers of the respondents have been very valuable. It gave great insight into 
their way of thinking and using value based pricing. It also confirmed some 
assumptions of the theory concerning social entrepreneurship. Especially on a 
personal level, the entrepreneurs seem to be in line with the description of their 
drive and purpose. But there are a lot of new factors to explore a contributions of 
these entrepreneurs to the business world. Are they truly creating change or are 
they pioneers in a niche market? The effect of their efforts on a large scale has not 
been researched enough. This would be an interesting topic for more research, for 
example, to focus on how VBP help them to prevent falling into a Death Valley.  
Based on the research we can draw lessons for other social entrepreneurs. The 
most important lesson is that value based pricing is an expression of who they are 
as entrepreneurs. It’s a reflection of the kind of customer relation they aim for and 

 
 
what their values are. It also tells how they want to implement and safeguard 
these values, as part of the essence of the organization. These entrepreneurs can 
inspire their peers in how they have created value-based businesses that are close 
to their heart. Furthermore, it is interesting that they consider the value-based 
perspective for their business as a foundation for their success. It would be 
interesting to find out how sustainable their businesses are in times of crisis, a 
topic that can be further explored: are these values based businesses more crisis-
proof than other businesses? 
Limitations 
There are limitations to this research. This research focused on 10 Dutch social 
entrepreneurs and the results should not be generalized to all social 
entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs in general. This can be seen as a limitation of the 
study. However, the qualitative approach helped us to explore the questions that 
were addressed in this research. In future studies, quantitative approaches may 
be helpful in exploring the impact of social entrepreneurs on business and society 
and exploring how VBP is being applied and with what motives by including the 
customers as respondents. The current study has given ingredients for defining 
relevant variables for further research. Also, the existing literature on value-based 
pricing and social entrepreneurship is limited. This means that theory building still 
is at a developing stage, which leaves room for new insights and interpretation on 
VBP in the context of social entrepreneurship. 
References 
Dees, J.G., (1998) The meaning of social entrepreneurship, Stanford University, 
USA.  
Hinterhuber, A. (2003), Towards value based pricing—An integrative framework 
for decision making, Industrial Marketing Management 33 (2004) 765–778. 
Hinterhuber, A. (2003), Customer value-based pricing strategies: Why companies 
resist, Journal of Business Strategy, 29 (4), 41 – 50. 
Hinterhuber, A., Liozu, S. (2018), Innovation in pricing: contemporary theories and 
best practices. New York. 
Hoogendoorn, B. (2011), Social Entrepreneurship in the Modern Economy: Warm 
Glow, Cold Feet, Rotterdam School of Management and the Erasmus 
University of Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
Koller, T., Goedhart, M., Wessels, D., (2010) Valuation: Measuring and managing 
the value of companies, Fifth edition, McKinsey & Company, John Wiley & 
Sons Inc., Canada. 

 
 
Liozu S., Boland D., Hinterbuber A., Perelli S. (2015) Mindful Pricing: Transforming 
Organizations Through Value Based Pricing. In: Robinson, Jr. L. (eds) 
Marketing Dynamism & Sustainability: Things Change, Things Stay the 
Same…. Developments in Marketing Science: Proceedings of the Academy 
of Marketing Science. Springer, Cham. 
Lüttgens and Diener (2016), Business Model Pattersn used as at tool for Creating 
(New) Innovative Business Models, Journal of Business Models, Vol. 4, No 3, 
pp. 19 - XX. 
Macdivitt, H., Wilkinson, M., (2012) Value-Based pricing: Drive sales and boost 
your bottom line by creating, communicating, and capturing customer value, 
The McGraw-Hill Companies, USA. 
Martin, R.L., Osberg, O., (2007) Social Entrepreneurship: The Case for Definition, 
Stanford Social Innovation Review, Leland Stanford Jr. University. 
Nagle, T.T., Hogan, J.E., Zale, J. (2011) The Strategy and Tactics of Pricing: a guide 
to growing more profitably, Pearson Education, Fifth Edition, USA. 
Raju.J., Zhang, Z.J., (2010), Smart pricing: How to google, Priceline, and Leading 
Businesses Use Pricing Innovation for profitability, Pearson Education, USA. 
De Toni, D., G. Sperandio Milan, E. Busata Saciloto, F. Larentis, (2016) Pricing 
strategies and levels and their impact on corporate profitability, Available 
from: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0080210716308299. 
Porter, M.E., Kramer, M.R., (2011), Creating shared value: how to reinvent 
capitalism- and unleash a wave of innovation and growth, Harvard Business 
Review, USA. 
Verloop, W. (2011), Opportunities for the Dutch Social Enterprise Sector, 
McKinsey & Company and Social Enterprise NL, The Netherlands. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CIRCULAR COMMUNICATION IN 
A CIRCULAR ECONOMY  
 
HOW SOCIAL MEDIA COMMUNICATION 
SHAPES SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODELS 
TRACK IV 

 
 
Track IV: Circular Communication in a Circular Economy, 
How Social Media Communication Shapes Sustainable 
Business Models 
 
Chairs: Deike Schulz1, and Niels Faber2 
1Nijmegen School of Management & NHL Stenden University of Applied Science, 
The Netherlands, 2Nijmegen School of Management & Hanze University of 
Applied Sciences; The Netherlands 
 
 
Meaningful communication via social media is circular communication that 
includes (1) content, (2) dialogue, and (3) engagement (Schulz, 2018). More 
specifically communications based on the shared social media content, between 
citizens (and organizations) can influence how citizens perceive organizations 
(Lyon & Montgomery, 2013; Schulz, Jonker, & Faber, 2018). This process can 
support or damage ongoing developments in sustainable transition in society. For 
example, citizens may damage organizations that are in the transition to become 
‘green’ when making (un) justified claims of greenwashing on social media. In 
addition (new) organizations have to carefully decide on their social media 
communication strategy. In particular, (1) which content to share and (2) how to 
engage with citizens through dialogue in order to introduce or support their 
sustainable business model and to be accepted, trusted and supported by social 
actors. 
This session aims to explore different contexts and relationships between various 
actors (for example organization and other organizations, organizations and 
citizen and citizen with other citizens) with regard to the influence of social media 
communication on the development of sustainable business models. For example, 
we like to discuss how multi-modal and multi-layered communication approaches 
through social media influence sustainable business models. Those approaches 
are content-driven (for example text, images- and audio-visuals shared in social 
networks), feature dialogue (for example through supportive or harmful feedback 
provided by other actors – organizations and/or citizens – on the shared content), 
and support (dis)engagement (for example how actors support each other and 
become active participants or negatively influence group processes). 
By exploring common theoretical ground as well as developing work that 
challenge our view on how social media-based communication schemes support 

 
 
or discredit the development of sustainable business models, we welcome 
theoretical and empirical contributions that discuss how social media 
communication influences sustainable business models. 
References / Further Reading 
Lyon, T. P., & Montgomery, A. W. (2013). Tweetjacked: The impact of social media 
on corporate greenwash. Journal of Business Ethics, 118(4), 747–757. 
http://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-013-1958-x 
Schulz, D. (2018). What is meaningful (social media) communication? Working 
paper. NHL-Stenden University, Leeuwarden, The Netherlands. 
Schulz, D., Jonker, J., & Faber, N. (2018). Outside-In Constructions of 
Organizational Legitimacy : Sensitizing the Influence of Evaluative 
Judgments Through Mass Self-Communication in Online Communities. 
International Journal of Communication, 12, 290–312. Retrieved from 
http://ijoc.org/index.php/ijoc/article/view/6072/2236 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 “The Role of Communication in 
Sustainability Transition Emerging 
Society: A case study of Dutch-
Indonesia New Business Model Setup”  
 
Putri N Astiwi*, 1, Bartjan J.W. Pennink2 
 
1University of Groningen; 2University of Groningen 
*p.n.astiwi@student.rug.nl 
 
Short Abstract  
This qualitative study explained how communication influences sustainability 
transition perception of locals on Dutch–Indonesia NBM setup. Process involves 
cross-country knowledge transfer, “telling” way through local government, local 
leader, social media as agent and “showing” way of communication. Study 
suggested communication has different roles and deliverables depending what-
how to change. 
Short Summary  
This paper aims to address the dearth of scientific literature on the communication 
process of sustainability transition in emerging markets/countries, as well as the 
newly arising literature on New Business Model (NBM hereafter). NBM Global 
Partnership can take an essential role in the sustainability transition for developing 
countries. NBM provides value creating infrastructure for both finance and 
sustainability, while the Global Partnership can build the bridge for sustainability 
knowledge transfer. However, IB scholars stress the communication challenge 
that occurs once any involvement of cross-country partnership is initiated. 
Sustainability transition needs to be perceived correctly by society as a 
prerequisite to obtaining the process legitimacy. The study provides an overview 
of how communication influence sustainability transition perception of local 
people on Dutch–Indonesia NBM setup. The process involves cross-country 

 
 
knowledge transfer, “telling” way through local government, local leader, social 
media as agent and “showing” way of communication. We suggested different 
communication role and deliverable depending on what-how to change. Further, 
authors explored multi-channel scenario case, where the most trusted channel 
and its content can move local initial perception. This research focuses on case 
study of Dutch – Indonesia NBM to conduct an inductive reasoning for our open 
research question (qualitative methodology). Authors collected the data by 
interviewing all represented parties in the conceptual framework and supporting 
documents. The case is selected based on the Dutch-Indonesia government 
sustainability priority partnership. Our finding will fill the literature gap as well as 
explain the practical challenge on sustainability transition mechanism in a 
developing country. 
Keywords 
Communication, Global partnership, New Business Model, Sustainability 
transition, Emerging Society 
Main text  
1. Background 
Sustainability transition becomes an interesting issue to discuss considering its 
significant impact to develop sustainable production and consumption (Grin et al., 
2010). Rapid economic growth accelerates the role developing countries assume 
with respect to the world’s sustainability. However, some concerns are still 
addressed to the developing countries where they are still lacking in governance, 
infrastructure, and society awareness (Bevan 2004; Wood and Gough 2006). 
Global Partnership NBM can take an essential role in the sustainability transition 
for developing countries. This model allows sustainability knowledge transfer from 
an advanced country as well as provides both financial and sustainable value 
creating a model to a developing country. 
Researchers found business transition management can be involved in one 
country’s sustainability transition (Loorbach and Wijsman, 2013). Furthermore, 
businesses can explore the potential competitive advantage in running a 
sustainable business (Elkington, 1998; Porter and Kramer,2006). This salient 
interest leads to a phenomenon to promote New Business Model where the 
business will not only focus on the financial performance but also on the 

 
 
sustainability aspect (Jonker, 2012). The existence of a global partnership can 
facilitate cross-country knowledge transfer. Hence, authors are interested to 
conduct a case study of Dutch–Indonesia NBM enterprise contribution in 
Indonesia sustainability transition. As transition research at the micro level is still 
lacking (Markard, et al., 2012), the proven concept of Dutch – Indonesia NBM in 
this research might fill this gap.  
However, International Business scholars stress the communication challenge that 
occurs once any involvement of cross-country partnership is initiated. 
Sustainability transition needs to be perceived correctly by society as a 
prerequisite to obtaining the process legitimacy. Communication does not only 
play a role in cross - country knowledge transfer but also in the involvement of 
local actor leaders, local government, and social media as communication agents 
to the society. Indeed, local actors’ participation is an imperative step to actualize 
local development (Pennink, 2016). Therefore, the research question will be 
formulated as follow, how does the way of communication influence sustainability 
transition perception of local people (on the case of Dutch- Indonesia New Business 
Model setup)? 
2. Methodology 
In this research, authors conducted a case study upon inductive reasoning. 
Qualitative inquiry can be a powerful tool to support the grounded theory that 
generated in the fieldwork by having an interview and case study in the real world 
rather than in the laboratory (Patton, 1990).  
Dutch–Indonesia has a long-established partnership and target both countries’ 
sustainability issues (Dutch – Indonesia Multiannual Policy Framework, 2017). The 
case is selected based on this sustainability priority partnership and the access to 
all representative parties in the framework model. Interviews were conducted 
with the company’s employees (Dutch director in Indonesia and local employees), 
communication agents (local government, local actor leader, social media writer 
content), and (targeted) locals. The company’s and interviewees’ name will be 
anonymised, but the background details will be given (appendix. table 1). 
Interview notes and supporting documents are coded to derive support to 
research framework. In order to strengthen the reliability and validity, authors 
conducted triangulation, case study database development, and chain of evidence 
both from interview notes and supporting document analysis (Yin, 2014). 

 
 
3. Finding and Discussion 
The interview and supporting documents derives the finding of communication 
influence into three main parts as follow, cross-country knowledge transfer within 
Dutch-Indonesia NBM enterprise, information delivery from NBM enterprise 
through some local communication channels (local government, local actor 
leader, social media) to the local people (figure 1), and trusted channel implication 
(figure 2). Each part in figure 1 will be structured based on what (containing the 
information and deliverable output) and how (the influence tactic or main activity 
to support the process), follows Cawsey’s (2012) change management framework. 
The study suggested that communication support all process where each phase 
has different role depending on the what-how to change. 
Figure 1. Framework of how communication influences sustainability transition 
perception of local people on Dutch – Indonesia NBM setup 
 
3.1 Knowledge transfer within Dutch – Indonesia New Business Model 
The potential knowledge that can be transferred from a developed country to an 
emerging country include sustainability practice, resource, and expert 
recommendation. Sustainability practice in the Netherlands becomes the 
knowledge that can be transferred through multiple value creation. Observed 
NBM enterprise can transfer its water engineering technology from the 
Netherlands to Indonesia and create an ecological value. The social value is 
created by involving the community and put Indonesia society empowerment as 
the main agenda. In the economic aspect, NBM enterprise also introduced and 

 
 
assisted one of the economic value-added projects to the society. In addition to 
multiple value creation, cross country partnership can support other resources 
such as funding, human resource, IT and system, expert recommendation for the 
sustainability planning and regulation. 
Cross–country knowledge transfer allows an opportunity for the emerging country 
to jump and adopt the latest sustainability technology from the developed country 
without experiencing previous technology evolution. On other hand, an emerging 
country’s lagging technology can be an opportunity for a developed country to 
expand the market and obtain exclusive access as a firm advantage. However, this 
is an ideal case. In addition, the director of NBM enterprise added that the 
different ways of working (as part of cultural difference) might hinder these 
opportunities to be realized. Locals might not perceive the importance of 
sustainability solution suggested because they can still survive in lacking condition. 
Indeed, unfamiliarity becomes a liability of foreignness within cross-country 
partnership hampering information flow (Beugelsdijk et al., 2018; Maseland et al., 
2018). 
Some interviewees (NBM employees) highlighted the role of collaboration to 
smoothen the knowledge transfer, as this also become key feature of NBM 
(Jonker, 2012; Pennink, 2016). Collaboration involves local actors and 
governments who can adopt the knowledge from developed country to local 
context. Further, the analysis of interviewees and program evaluation documents 
result in emphasizing locals’ awareness of the problem and commitment to 
change. These also become the key success factor of change management 
(Cawsey et al., 2012).  This communication has a role to inform the possible 
sustainable strategies, to learn the local context, to advocate the recommendation 
in regulation or technical aspect, and to negotiate locals’ readiness and legitimacy 
to change. In the case of limited resource and unfamiliarity due to cultural 
difference, NBM enterprise could not directly to convince wider local people. 
Interviewees emphasize the role of local government (particularly with its 
authority to decide the regulation), local leaders, and social media as their 
communication agents. 
3.2.1 Local information delivery: Telling way of communication  
Telling way of communication is constructed under Narrative Paradigm Theory 
(“NPT”) where people might comprehend complex information and catch ideas 
through narrative (Fisher, 1984). This storytelling method can be meaningful in a 

 
 
cross-cultural context (Barker and Gower, 2010). The study suggested each agent 
has different narrative depending on its what-how to change.  
3.2.1.1 Communication channel: local government 
Our interviewees stressed the local government’s commitment as key to the 
country sustainability transition. The government can utilize its authority to decide 
regulation and manage the budget to build infrastructure. They pointed out that 
local government should be aware about their community sustainability issue and 
society involvement before formulating regulation and infrastructure budget. This 
will involve a tiered or multilevel advocation from NBM and fieldwork employees 
to ensure the beneficial policy for society. Eventually, new sustainability regulation 
and infrastructure (as what to change) need to be communicated to the society to 
make use of it.  
Local government’s telling way of communication is not only to oblige society to 
do or make use of the new regulation and/or infrastructure but also to promote 
the greater its benefits to the community. Policy approval and guideline 
documents and banners can be silence promotion tools. Seminar or launching 
event can be an activity to facilitate the discussion if any inquiry from society 
regarding new infrastructure or policy approval. The communication has a role to 
inform new regulation and infrastructure as well as to learn society’s responses 
for further command and strategies.  
3.2.1.2 Communication channel: local actor leader 
Local actor leader will comprehend sustainability transition better than other 
locals because they have the openness and readiness to change. The feeling of 
equality between local actor leader and other locals helps to build engagement. 
Local actor leaders can spread the legitimacy of change to others to ensure the 
project continuity.  It is expected that the society is not only aware of the 
sustainability issue but also willing to engage and maintain the continuity of the 
sustainability transition (what to change). 
Dialogue is a two-way communication that is able to foster society’s openness and 
to clarify misperception. A personal touch in this telling way of communication is 
needed to build civic engagement. This can be done by throwing a triggering topic 
to the society to make them more open, for instance, by constantly emphasizing 
honesty values or telling small minded consequences based on the real stories to 

 
 
make society relatable. Regular training and discussion can facilitate the frequent 
dialogue process.  The connection can be built by having a discussion forum with 
certain topic interest. This communication has role mainly to motivate the society 
to step into the transition process and to clarify any society’s misconception or 
ambivalence understanding. 
3.2.1.3 Communication channel: social media 
Social media have a wider media coverage at relatively cheaper cost. For over 
years, the rise of social media platform utilization rate is shown along the 
increasing of internet affordability. The type and function of social media become 
vary such as networking, idea sharing and public discussion. In this case, we define 
social media encompasses function as special forum interest (e.g. Facebook 
Group, WhatsApp Group), media-sharing sites (e.g. YouTube, Facebook page), and 
blogging (e.g. Twitter, BlogSpot, and website). Although each site might have 
different communication function and deliverable, they still have same focus of 
what to change in wider information exposure and transparency.  
Special interest forum sites tend to focus on one certain issue or similarity. This 
communication forum will work for the sustainability transition if the members of 
the group active, close each other, and have the same language (literal -e.g. 
Indonesian language- and functional – e.g. Fieldwork language). This telling way is 
relatively similar to dialogue but in an online platform.  The forum also works best 
for civic engagement and collaborative platform based on brief observation of one 
WhatsApp group forum and discussion with the members. Then, this 
communication has role to inform the sustainability news and updates, to learn 
other member reaction, and to motivate any resistance.  
Media – sharing sites and blogging have a similar purpose to attract mass or 
certain attention but different visualization point of information (media sharing 
sites focus picture and video; blogging focuses on the written case). Interviewee 
(local actor leader) expressed its telling way in her active posting in these sites to 
attract others attention, acknowledge her sustainability activities, and expect 
(material and non-material) support in the future. The sharing activity can be 
lesson learnt materials for other community. We also observed that media sharing 
sites can capture the complaints, critics, and resistance of the society and tag the 
related party to resolve the issue (and build social shamed if the issue still 
appears). Blogging works better for providing program evaluation notes or 
uploading the long narratives and story. These attentions can be an indirect 

 
 
reward and pressure to maintain the transition for community. Thus, this 
communication has a role to inform the personal opinion or expression and 
potential sustainable strategies, as well as to learn the responses through the 
number of likes, viewers, and comments that left in the posted media or blog. 
3.2.2 Local information delivery: Showing way of communication 
The showing way of communication has a focus on communication strategy with 
making use of pioneering or piloting project to gain commitment in the transition 
initiatives, backed by the theory of Seeing first strategy (Cawsey et., 2012; 
Mintzberg, 2001). Based on the observation in interviewees’ answers (NBM 
employees) and document analysis, the company focuses on the selected nine 
provincial areas (with 3 – 4 cities as a piloting project). This way of communication 
will formulate a creative solution and develop best practice that can be the 
benchmark in the future expansion or project. The company can gain more 
commitment from people after showing real case visualization.  
Observed NBM enterprise had a knowledge management specialist to develop the 
success stories, project documentations, and technical creative solution. They 
developed a collaborative platform between the fieldwork facilitators that can 
inspire and guide them with a new solution. The communication has a role to 
inform the sustainability real case through the piloting documentation and success 
story sharing. Prior to the showing process, communication has more roles to 
learn best practice guideline or success story development from fieldwork 
employees. 
3.3 Coexistence content and trusted channel to locals’ perception 
Referring the framework in figure 1, we can see that society might be exposed in 
several ways of communication and agents. After interviewing the representation 
of community and society, we suggested to derive the implication of the most 
trusted channel among several channels exposed and it’s the content connotation. 
The overview of this finding is depicted in figure 2 backed by the influence tactics 
theory in change management (Cawsey et al., 2012). 
Trust is defined as the willingness of a party to take a risk (George and Swap, 1982). 
In this case, the sustainability transition can be categorized as a riskier activity 
because society need to step out from the comfort zone. Society’s personal 
selection in trusted channel might be varied. Based on interviewees’ experience, 

 
 
some locals consider local actor leader as a trusted channel, some consider their 
peers. However, initial response from the society can swing following the 
connotation given by the trusted channels. This result in four possible implications 
illustrated in figure 2.  
Figure 2. Schematic illustration of the coexistence trust and content in 
communication channel in emerging society’s sustainability transition 
perception 
 
4. Conclusion 
Economic growth accelerates the role developing countries to the world’s 
sustainability. However, some concerns are still addressed to developing 
countries’ sustainability. NBM Global partnership NBM can facilitate sustainability 
knowledge transfer from the developed country as well as create multiple values 
to the emerging country. As IB scholars stressed the different culture challenge 
that hamper the process, communication then holds a critical role to deliver right 
sustainability transition perception of local people.  
The case study is conducted on Dutch – Indonesia NBM. Answering open research 
question regarding the involvement of communication, it is developed a 
framework with main parts as follow, cross-country knowledge transfer within 
NBM, “telling” way through local government, local leader, social media as an 
agent and “showing” way of communication. The study suggested communication 
holds different roles given deliverable information and the purpose of each phase 
(what-how to change). Further, we developed trusted channel implication in 
moving local perception. Generalization might be issue for this research and 

 
 
become opportunity for future research to expand this research concept in varied 
contexts. This research finding is expected to address the dearth of sustainability 
transition at micro level and to bring insights for policymakers and other global 
NBM enterprises. 
Appendix 
Table 1. Detail background from the data resource: 
NBM enterprise: Dutch-based company that expands in Indonesia (HO: Jakarta; 
the fieldwork: Indramayu, West Java) 
Business line: water treatment, water supply, flood resilience, waste 
management, water sanitation, hydropower, land acclimation, sanitation 
Dutch – Indonesia sustainability priority: Water management (SDGs: clean water 
and sanitation) 
Type 
Role 
Interview time 
NBM enterprise 
Water Director 
1:09:54 
NBM enterprise 
Project manager 
44:57 
NBM enterprise 
Deputy 
project 
(Environmental 
engineer) 
1:41:49 
NBM 
enterprise/ 
social media writer 
Knowledge management 
specialist 
NBM 
enterprise/ 
social media writer 
Advocacy 
and 
communication specialist 
NBM 
enterprise/ 
social media writer 
Journalist 
and 
communication specialist 
NBM enterprise 
Provincial 
Sanitation 
Advisor (West Java area) 
51:28 
Local government 
Local government – Head 
of waste management 
division 
1:00:31 
Local government 
Local government – Head 
of 
Environment 
Institution 
15:09 
Local actor leader 
Anjatan 
Utara 
Village 
leader 
48:19 
Local actor leader / 
social media writer 
The city of Indramayu 
1:45:14 
Local actor leader / 
social media writer 
Community leader 
1:21:06 
Emerging society 
Local people 
 

 
 
List of documents:  
NBM Enterprise: website, project publication (factsheet, guideline, law regulation, 
program evaluation documents, training modules, reports video) banner, YouTube 
(planning and advocation material), Facebook Page (Specific page to discuss 
sanitation), WhatsApp group (Forum that discuss particular issue), IT system brief 
notes (collaborative platform) 
Local government: website and Facebook page 
Local actor leader: leader personal Facebook and community Facebook 
Notes: all open resources and already obtained the permission of the owner 
References 
Barker and Gower. (2010). Strategic Application of Storytelling in Organization: 
Towards Communication in Diverse World. Journal of Business 
Communication vol 47 (3) 295 – 312 
Beugelsdijk, Ambos, Nell. (2018). Conceptualizing and Measuring Distance in 
International Business Research: Recurring Questions and Best Practice 
Guideline. Journal of International Business Studies 
Bevan, P., (2004). Conceptualising in/security regimes. In: Gough, I., Wood, 
G.,Barrientos, A., Bevan, P., Davis, P., Room, G. (Eds.), Insecurity and Welfare 
Regimes in Asia, Africa and Latin America: Social Policy in Development 
Contexts. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp. 88–118 
Cawsey, Deszca, and Ingols. (2012) Organizational Change, Second Edition. SAGE 
Publications 
Dutch – Indonesia Multiannual Policy Framework. 2013. Embassy of the Kingdom 
of the Netherlands in Jakarta 
Elkington, J., 1998. Cannibals with Forks: the Triple Bottom Line of 21st Century 
Business. New Society Publishers, Gabriola Island, BC 
Fisher, W.R. (1984) Narration as a human communication paradigm: The case of 
public moral argument, Communication Monographs, 51:1, 1-22 
George, C.J., Swap,W.C. (1982) Measurement of Specific Interpersonal Trust: 
Construction and Validation of a Scale to Assess Trust in a Specific Other. 
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 43(6):1306-1317 
Grin, J., Rotmans, J., Schot, J., (2010). Transitions to Sustainable Development. 
Routledge 
Jonker, J. (2012). New Business Models. An Exploratory Study of Changing 
Transactions Creating Multiple Value(s) 
Loorbach, Wijsman. (2013). Business transition management: exploring a new role 
for businessin sustainability transitions. Journal of Cleaner Production 

 
 
Markard, Raven, Truffer. (2012). Sustainability transitions: An emerging field of 
research and its prospects. Research Policy 
Maseland, Dow, Steel. (2018). The Kogut and Singh National Cultural Distance 
Index: Time to Start it as a Springboard rather than a Crutch. Journal of 
International Business Studies 
Pennink, B.J.W., (2016). Local Economic Development and New Business Models: 
How to Combine (New) Actors and (New) Values 
Patton, M.Q. (1990). Qualitative evaluation and research methods (2nd ed.). 
Newbury Park, CA: Sage  
Porter, M.E., Kramer, M.R., (2006). Strategy and society the link between 
competitive advantage and corporate social responsibility. Harvard Business 
Review, 1 -14 
Wood, G., Gough, I., (2006). A comparative welfare regime approach to global 
social policy. World Development. 34 (10), 1696–1712 
Yin, R.K. (2014). Case Study Research Design and Methods (5th ed.). Thousand 
Oaks, CA: Sage 
 
 

 
 
The Role of Community Building for 
Circular Economy in the Urban Context 
Comparative Analysis between Circular Berlin and 
Circular Economy Rhein-Main 
 
Dina Padalkina1,2*, Leon Bucher1, Christina Jäger3, Isabel Ordonez2 
 
1Circular Berlin; 2TU Berlin; 3Circular Economy Rhein-Main 
 
*dina@circular.berlin 
 
Extended Abstract  
The circular economy (CE) has been discussed as an approach to improve product 
design and to promote new business models through effective resource use. 
Products are essential pieces of economic processes, but they are not the only 
components with the capacity to change the rules of the game. Circular economy 
means system thinking, which is possible through the engagement of different 
stakeholders, including diverse communities. Its methodology has the potential to 
be scaled to an urban level including industrial symbioses, infrastructure 
development, and community participation. Coherent dialogue, knowledge 
sharing and interactions between different stakeholders within ecosystems are 
the keys to close the gap between the circular economy and the current economy.  
This article focusses on the comparative analysis of two initiatives, their 
objectives, communication tools, and community building and its participation: 
Circular Berlin and Circular Economy Rhein-Main.  
Circular Berlin is an open initiative that has been developed from an exploratory 
study in 2018. Currently, it provides a collective source of Berlin-based circular 
economy best practices, offers the platform for local community engagement and 
knowledge exchange, connects local actors and supports their growth through 
collaboration. The further objective of Circular Berlin is to advocate the circular 
economy through education and community-building, to co-design projects with 
local partners that support Berlin towards CE transformation.  

 
 
Circular Economy Rhein-Main is a community-driven initiative with the goal to 
foster a CE in Frankfurt and the Rhein-Main region. The objective is to connect 
individuals and businesses interested or working on a circular economy through 
events such as meetups, presentations, talks, workshops, conferences, field visits.  
Both initiatives had a similar starting point of development and focus on the 
bottom-up CE community development in the urban context. The authors will 
explain the selected approach, highlight the interim results in terms of who are 
the relevant stakeholders and how the focus areas were identified, and cover the 
role of communication tools, such as diverse social media channels to promote 
knowledge exchange, connects local actors and support their growth. 
Circular Berlin 
Circular Berlin started by Dina Padalkina at the beginning of 2018.  It took the form 
of exploratory study and was elaborated in 3 main phases.  
The first phase consisted of desk research to identify circular initiatives.  The 
initiatives were validated with local actors through the mapping event, which was 
jointly organized with Circular Economy Club, during the global Circular Economy 
Mapping event. As its outcome, around 40 Berlin-based professionals took part in 
the event, and collectively identified more than 120 CE initiatives in Berlin. 
The second phase used interviews and surveys to inform a feasibility study about 
promoting CE in Berlin, that aimed to identify a possible approach to “anchor” the 
CE locally and to identify sectors with the highest potential to drive CE in the city. 
More than 20 interviews were conducted, and 10 online surveys were collected 
across different CE representatives and city municipalities. The focus of the study 
was on 4 main industrial areas, such as built environment, food and biomass, 
textile and fashion, and materials and products. Material flows concept of 
industrial economy was used for the analysis of input and output resources. It 
helped to develop industrial value chains at the city level and to link local circular 
economy initiatives and their core competencies across the value chain. 
The third phase organized sector specific multi-stakeholder workshops, that aimed 
to identify current gaps for implementing CE in each of these sectors and address 
city challenges. 4 Industry workshops during the third phase brought local CE 
stakeholders together and provided the opportunity for the gaps’ and next steps’ 
discussion. 

 
 
During all 3 phases, close interaction and communication with the Berlin CE 
community was established. Main channels for communication are Facebook and 
LinkedIn. Less than in 8 months, Circular Berlin reached via Facebook more than 
350 followers, via LinkedIn more than 150 subscribers and more than 30 Berlin 
projects applied to be listed on the platform with the request to search for 
collaboration. Throughout these activities, more requests appeared to support the 
projects for further implementation, which is the key for the circular economy 
push and information sharing and understanding for. The project gained attention 
from many Berlin related organization such as Berlin Partner for Business and 
Technology, TU Berlin, Visit Berlin, etc. and considered as a further partner for 
Circular Economy implementation on the city level.  
Circular Economy Rhein-Main 
Starting from 2016 Circular Economy Rhein-Main was driven by its volunteer co-
founders, Christina Jäger and Svenja Bickert-Appleby, however, any community 
member can propose a topic and format and organize an event making it a 
collaborative platform centred around the interest and needs of its members. The 
initiative is organized through Meetups as the main communication tool. Since 
2018 Christina and Svenja are the representatives for the Circular Economy Club 
Frankfurt chapter and activities of Circular Economy Rhein-Main are merged and 
communicated via the Circular Economy Club network as well. 
In 2018 Circular Economy Rhein-Main organized mapping event that was joined 
by 50 members a stakeholder analysis was prepared. The mapping was focused on 
five industries food, electronics, textiles, cities, and others analysing which circular 
economy practices at the following levels already exist amongst the different type 
of stakeholders (Business, Education, Government, Investment, Support) in 
Frankfurt and the Rhein-Main region: 
·       Design & Materials  
·       Manufacturing / Logistics 
·       Sales / Business Models  
·       Product life extension 
·       Recycle  

 
 
The results have been compiled in a summary and are accessible open source via 
the Circular Economy Club website. The circular economy scene Frankfurt and 
Rhein-Main is advancing with SMEs and social start-ups coming forward but is still 
a rather niche and unknown sector. Since its creation, various topics have been 
discussed, presented or collaborated on. Circular Economy Rhein Main provides 
the space to inspire and enable the co-design and start of new projects or 
initiatives to further advance and create more visibility for a circular economy in 
the region.      
Within the period of 2 years, Circular Economy Rhein-Main has created a 
community in MeetUp with 300 members today and a core group of 10 members 
co-hosting activities. 
This article collects the results and development steps obtained from both 
initiatives, including the detailed explanation of the approach for bottom-up CE 
urban development in Berlin and Frankfurt and the local initiative review. Both 
concepts are based on an open and transparent approach. It covers the learnings 
for circular economy implementation through direct work with the local circular 
economy community and municipalities and covers the role of different 
communication tools as Facebook, LinkedIn, MeetUp, and developed 
communication Platform and use of other Circular Economy aggregating 
platforms. One of the most successful outcomes of 2 projects is that starting from 
with the data-collective work both initiatives are developing into self-organized 
and functioning communities in the city and urban area which attracts knowledge 
creation, volunteers and supporters and diverse projects searching for like-minded 
people in the area of the circular economy.  
Keywords 
Circular City, Community Development, Communication for Circular Economy, 
Bottom-up driven approach. 
References  
Web Page: Padalkina D.M. (2018) Circular Economy: Redesigning economy 
beyond 
a 
product. 
Available 
from: 
https://medium.com/thebeammagazine/circular-economy-redesigning-
economy-beyond-a-product-21d821436ac6 

 
 
Web 
page: 
Circular 
Berlin 
Report. 
(2018) 
Available 
from: 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/103Vv3d_ykNXvabiockDTlyoF5cnAGfYK/vie
w?usp=sharing. 
Web Page: Circular Berlin www.circular.berlin 
Web Page: Circular Economy Rhein-Main https://www.meetup.com/de-
DE/Circular-Economy-Rhein-Main/  
 

 
 
The Value of Data in Circular Business 
Models 
 
Päivi Luoma1,*, Anne Toppinen23, and Esko Penttinen4 
 
1Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry, University of Helsinki, Finland; 2 
Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry, University of Helsinki, Finland; 
3Helsinki Institute of Sustainability Science, University of Helsinki, 
4School of Business, Department of Information and Service 
Economy, Aalto University, Finland; 
 
*paivi.luoma@helsinki.fi 
 
Abstract  
In the context of circular economy, innovative business models are needed to 
slow, close, and narrow resource loops. The value of data can be crucial for these 
business models and intended circular benefits. The aim of this literature review 
is to understand the value of data in circular business models.  
Introduction 
Circular economy aims at solving environmental sustainability challenges by 
turning linear resource flows into circular loops (Lahti et al. 2017). In the context 
of circular economy new innovative business models are needed to slow, close, 
and narrow resource loops by, for example, extended customer experience, long-
life goods, product-life extensions, reuse of materials, or resource-efficiency (e.g. 
Bocken 2016). The goal is to get more value out of resources and to improve the 
sustainability of production and consumption. At the same time, increasing 
amount of data is transforming the way businesses operate, and data, when 
generating knowledge and insight for better decision making, is seen as a 
potentially powerful source of both economic and social value (Grover et al. 2018).  

 
 
Traditionally, resource flows have been the primary focus of circular business 
models. However, data can act as a significant driver and enabler in the circular 
economy (e.g. Frishammar et al. 2019, Gupta et al. 2018). Interesting examples of 
data-driven circular business models, such as performance models and digital 
market places for waste, are emerging (EMF 2019, WEF 2016). However, research 
on the intersection of data and circular business models is scarce (Bressanelli et 
al. 2018, Tseng et al. 2018).  
The aim of this literature review is to understand the value of data in circular 
business models by identifying, reviewing, and synthesizing the related literature.  
Conceptual background  
Circular business models 
In circular business models, value is created through slowing, closing, or narrowing 
resource loops. Slowing resource loops is achieved through the design of long-life 
goods and extended product-life, closing resource loops through reusing materials 
through recycling, and narrowing resource loops through resource-efficiency 
(Bocken et al., 2016). In the context of circular economy, this third approach is 
seen somehow different from the other two, as it can be applied also in linear 
resource flows. Circular bioeconomy business models have also been identified at 
the intersection of circular and bioeconomy (D’Amato et al. 2018). In the context 
of circular business models, the value includes not only customer and economic 
value but also societal value (Lüdeke-Freund et al. 2018), and value is created 
primarily from an environmental value proposition (Manninen et al. 2018). 
However, it has been argued that circular business models might not always be 
sustainable (Geissdoerfer 2018).  
Business models and related innovations have been increasingly researched in 
recent years (Foss and Saabi 2017) and turned out to be a helpful tool in 
understanding how companies do their business and how value is created and 
captured. As well, there is a growing body of research on circular business models 
and business model innovations (e.g. Pieroni et al. 2019, Brown et al. 2019), and 
what kind inherent uncertainties there are (Linder and Willander 2017). Although 
literature defines data as an enabler of circular economy and business models (e.g. 
Frishammar et al. 2019, Gupta et al. 2018), the role of data in circular business 
models has not been specifically considered in any large scale. 
 
 

 
 
Value of data  
Increasing amount of data is changing the way businesses operate, and data, when 
generating insight for better decision making, is seen as a potentially powerful 
source of customer, economic and social value (Grover et al. 2018). This insight 
can result in, among others, better asset utilisation, operational efficiency, cost 
savings and extended customer experience (e.g. Günther et al. 2017, Chen et al. 
2015). Data can lead to product, service and business model innovation and 
transform business (e.g. Hartman et al. 2019, Grover et al. 2018). These potential 
results and impacts are highly valid in the circular context as well, as they can be 
seen to relate to slowing, closing, and narrowing resource loops. 
While prior research informs us on data-driven business models and on the 
benefits and value of data, for example, in the context of big data (e.g. Grover et 
al. 2018, Hartman et al. 2016, Chen et al. 2015), industry 4.0 (e.g. Tseng et al. 
2018), smart manufacturing (e.g. Ren et al. 2019) and product-service-systems 
(e.g. Zheng et al. 2018), the academic research on the role of data in circular 
business models is relatively scarce, resulting in a gap in our understanding 
regarding the opportunities of the increasing amount of data in circular business 
models (e.g. Chen et al. 2015, Günther et al. 2017, Grover 2018, Lim et al. 2018).  
Research design 
In order to understand the role and value of data for circular business models, 
related literature was identified, reviewed and synthesized. A literature search to 
academic databases (Scopus and EBSCO Business Source Complete) was done for 
circular business model and data related articles in journals54. The total number of 
articles published since year 2000 was 140. Out of these articles, 37 were 
identified as relevant to understand the value of data in circular business models. 
This set of studies was expanded through cross-reference techniques to include 
relevant literature that was left outside the used search terms. More specifically, 
this was done by identifying further references used by the identified literature 
that could be useful in answering the research question. This added 5 articles to 
the relevant literature. In total, 42 articles were included in this literature review. 
The selected articles were systematically reviewed regarding their theoretical, 
conceptual, and empirical contribution to answer the research question. The 
perspective of the articles on data and its value was assessed and the link to 
                                                 
54Search terms used included “circular” together with “business model” or “value creation” in the 
title, abstract, keywords, or subject terms, to focus the articles to the business context (specific 
search terms used “circular” AND “business model*” OR “value create*”) and “data” in all text. 

 
 
circular business models and strategies identified. The type and sources of data, 
management of data, and data-driven activities discussed in the articles were 
identified. In addition, the expected and realized benefits and impacts of data, 
pointed out by the articles, were assessed. 
Results 
Preliminary findings indicate that the state of core literature on the intersection 
of data and circular business models is fragmented. Data is seen as a driver or 
enabler of circular economy (e.g. De Mattos and de Albuquerque 2018, Tura et al. 
2019) or, on the other hand, lack of data as a barrier for circular business (e.g. 
Saidani et al. 2018, Vermunt et al. 2019). A variety of circular strategies are 
covered by the reviewed articles from smart circular systems and product life cycle 
management to performance services and closed loop supply chains (Table 1). On 
the other hand, articles cover a variety of technologies including internet of things, 
embedded intelligence, big data, industry 4.0, and digital technologies. 
Table 1. Examples of the literature on the intersection of data and circular business 
models 
Perspective of 
the article 
Specific focus 
Examples of articles 
Driven by 
circular 
economy 
Focus on the value of 
data in the context of 
slowing resource loops 
Alcayaga et al. 2019 
Bressanelli et al. 2018  
Khan et al. 2018 
Rajala et al. 2017 
Spring and Araujo 2017 
Zhang et al. 2017 
 
Focus on the value of 
data in the context of 
closing resource loops 
Aid et al. 2017 
Alcayaga et al. 2019 
Favi et al. 2019  
Jensen et al. 2019  
Tseng et al. 2018  
Zhang et al. 2017 
 
Focus on the value of 
data in the context of 
narrowing resource loops 
Bressanelli et al. 2018 
Fisher et al. 2018  

 
 
Driven by 
enabling 
technologies 
 
Gupta et al. 2018 
Hopkinson et al. 2018 
Lopes de et al. 2018 
Rajala et al. 2018  
Rajput et al. 2019  
Spring and Araujo 2017  
 
Different types of data, including a variety of product, service and system life time 
data (from design to disposal), can be valuable in the context of circular business 
models. This includes data on status, condition, location, operation, and use of the 
products, services, and systems (e.g. Alcayaga et al. 2019, Rajala et al. 2018) and 
can give insight on, for example, how customers are using products (Bressanelli et 
al. 2019) or how supply chain logistics can be optimized (Hopkinson et al. 2018). 
Detailed life time data is not always accessible (Alcayaga et al. 2019) and more 
general material flow data, for example on waste streams, is used for mapping 
current state and baseline (Gupta et al. 2018) or identifying circular opportunities 
(Aid et al. 2017). Type of data and frequency of data collection vary depending on 
its use and, for example, continuous data flow might be needed for maintenance 
whereas data needs for other uses might be more irregular (Alcayaga et al. 2019).  
In circular business models, data can be used for product design, product life time 
extensions, product and service innovation, as well as enhancing the customer 
experience. In product design, both user-generated and product-generated data 
(Zheng et al. 2018), including insights on usage patterns of customers (Spring and 
Araujo, 2017), can be used, among others, to extend product life (Bressanelli et al. 
2019), evaluate the lifecycle performance of products (Matsumoto et al. 2016), 
improve the recyclability of products (Favi et al. 2019) and adapt design, operation 
and disposal strategies along the lifecycle based on this data (Khan et al. 2018). 
This can lead to product and service innovation including product-service-systems 
and performance services, where companies keep the ownership of the products 
and data is used to optimize performance and expand service offering (e.g. 
Algayaca et al. 2019, Frishammar et al. 2019). Data and data-driven services might 
enable richer and longer customer relationships (Spring and Araujo, 2017), 
customization of customer experience and higher user involvement (e.g. 
Bressanelli et al. 2018, Khan et al. 2018). 
In addition, data can be used for operational performance and asset utilization 
optimization, maintenance, and optimizing end-of-life activities. Smart systems 

 
 
and embedded intelligence produce data on condition, operation, status, location, 
use, history and the surrounding systems, which enable, if needed, real-time 
monitoring and controlling of systems and material flows (e.g. Rajala et al. 2018, 
Lopes de et al. 2018). This data can be used for process and supply chain 
optimization (Zhang et al. 2017), reducing waste in production systems across 
supply chains (Lopes de et al. 2018), finding hidden patterns and correlations to 
optimize systems (Gupta et al. 2018), and fault diagnosis (Zhang et al. 2017). Data 
can enable sophisticated maintenance activities including preventive, predictive 
and prescriptive maintenance and automation of these activities (Alcayaga et al. 
2018, Bressanelli et al. 2019) as well as optimising end-of-life activities including 
reuse, remanufacturing, recycling (Bressanelli et al. 2019). Data can also be used 
to assess the environmental performance of circular business models and (e.g. 
Jensen et al. 2019, Manninen et al. 2018), but assessing the impact of large 
integrated systems can be difficult (Aid et al. 2017). 
Collaboration in collecting and sharing data as well as efficient flow of information 
in the supply chain are seen crucial for capturing the value of data in a networked 
circular economy context. Existing circular business models have a varying degree 
of openness (Firshammer et al. 2019) but there seems to be a shift towards more 
collaborative approach on data sharing (Rajala et al. 2018). However, data 
discrepancies, gaps, and confidentiality issues are somewhat hampering 
collaboration (Tseng et al. 2018) and trust is needed to share data (Gupta et al. 
2018, Rajala et al. 2018). In circular economy driven collaboration, collecting and 
sharing data can be the first collaborative step (Brown et al. 2019) and way to 
integrate the value chain (Lopes de et al. 2018). Companies may also find their 
data to exceed their own needs and to be more valuable to others (Spring and 
Araujo 2017).  
Discussion and conclusions 
In the context of circular business models, data seems to have the potential to act 
as an input or a key resource, which through a path of data-driven, preferably 
collaborative, activities could result in positive circular impacts. It is of increasing 
interest how companies collaboratively can create value propositions that result 
in new circular value configurations and systemic-level business models (Brown et 
al. 2019).  
In the use of data, we seem to see a more customer-driven path to data-driven 
business model innovation where data is used for enhancing customer experience 

 
 
towards circular economy objectives through product design, product life time 
extensions, higher user involvement, and product-service-systems. On the other 
hand, we see a performance-driven path where data, including real-time 
performance and material flow data, is used to optimize the economic and 
environmental performance of circular systems and supply chains on more 
technical and operational level. The idea of these two paths is close to what 
Urbinati et al. (2017) point out to be significant in creating new circular business 
models, namely a customer value proposition, which involves a higher degree of 
cooperation with the customers, and the value network, which includes reverse 
supply chain activities and cooperation with the actors in the supply chain. These 
two paths overlap and might both result in business models where significant 
customer, business, and societal value is created and captured out of data. 
However, there is no certainty that use of data would result in new business 
models and bring the intended benefits.  
The reviewed literature left some of the issues often identified with circular 
business models uncovered. This applies for example to sharing business models. 
This research is limited by its scope and the choice of methods. It may not identify 
all relevant literature or all relevant aspects on the value of data in circular 
business models. However, despite of these limitations, it aims at giving significant 
grounded insight and conceptual understanding on the issue.  
Keywords 
business models, circular economy, data-driven, value of data, sustainability 
References 
Aid, G., Eklund, M., Anderberg, S. & Baas L. (2017) Expanding roles for the swedish 
waste management sector in inter-organizational resource management. 
Resources, Conservation and Recycling. 124, 85-97. 
Alcayaga, A., Wiener, M. & Hansen, E. G. (2019) Towards a framework of smart-
circular systems: An integrative literature review. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 221, 622-634. 
Bocken, N., de Pauw, I., Bakker, C. & van der Grinten, B. (2016) Product design and 
business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and 
Production Engineering. 33(5), 308-320. 
Bressanelli, G., Adrodegari, F., Perona, M. & Saccani, N. (2018) Exploring how 
usage-focused business models enable circular economy through digital 
technologies. Sustainability. 10(3). 

 
 
Brown P., Bocken, N. & Balkenende, R. (2019) Why Do Companies Pursue 
Collaborative Circular Oriented Innovation? Sustainability. 11(3), 635.  
Chen, D., Preston, D. & Swink, M. (2015) How the use of big data analytics affects 
value creation in supply chain management. Journal of Management 
Information Systems. 32(4), 4-39. 
D’Amato, D., Veijonaho, S. & Toppinen, A. 2018. Towards sustainability? Forest-
based circular bioeconomy business models in Finnish SMEs. Manuscript 
accepted in Forest Policy and Economics. 
EMF (Ellen MacArthur Foundation). (2019) Artificial intelligence and the circular 
economy, AI as a tool to accelerate the transition. EMF and Google.  
Favi, C., Marconi, M., Germani, M. & Mandolini, M. (2019) A design for 
disassembly tool oriented to mechatronic product de-manufacturing and 
recycling. Advanced Engineering Informatics. 39, 62-79. 
Foss, N. & Saebi, T. (2017) Fifteen years of research on business model innovation: 
How far have we come, and where should we go? Journal of Management. 
43(1), 200-227. 
Frishammar, J. & Parida, V. (2019) Circular business model transformation: A 
roadmap 
for 
incumbent 
firms. 
California 
Management 
Review. 
2019;61(2):5-29. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Morioka, S. & de Carvalho, M., Evans S. (2018) Business models 
and supply chains for the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
190, 712-721. 
Grover, V., Chiang, R., Ting-Peng, L. & Zhang, D. (2018) Creating strategic business 
value from big data analytics: A research framework. Journal of 
Management Information Systems. 35(2), 388-423. 
Gupta, S., Chen, H., Hazen, B., Kaur, S. & Santibañez Gonzalez, E. (2018) Circular 
economy and big data analytics: A stakeholder perspective. Technological 
Forecasting and Social Change. 
Günther, W., Rezazade Mehrizi, M., Huysman, M. & Feldberg, F. (2017) Debating 
big data: A literature review on realizing value from big data. The Journal of 
Strategic Information Systems. 26(3),191-209. 
Hartmann, P. M., Zaki, M., Feldmann, N., & Neely, A. (2016) Capturing value from 
big data – a taxonomy of data-driven business models used by start-up firms. 
International Journal of Operations & Production Management. 36(10), 
1382-1406. 
Hopkinson, P., Zils, M., Hawkins, P. & Roper S. (2018) Managing a complex global 
circular economy business model: Opportunities and challenges. California 
Management Review. 60(3), 71-94. 

 
 
Jensen, J., Prendeville, S., Bocken, N. & Peck, D. (2019) Creating sustainable value 
through remanufacturing: Three industry cases. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 218, 304-314. 
Khan, M., Mittal, S., West, S. & Wuest, T. (2018) Review on upgradability – A 
product lifetime extension strategy in the context of product service 
systems. Journal of Cleaner Production. 204, 1154-1168. 
Lahti, T., Wincent, J. & Parida, V. (2018) A definition and theoretical review of the 
circular economy, value creation, and sustainable business models: Where 
are we now and where should research move in the future? Sustainability. 
10(8). 
Lewandowski, M. (2016) Designing the business models for circular economy-
towards the conceptual framework. Sustainability. 8(1), 1-28. 
Lieder, M., Asif, F. & Rashid, A. (2017) Towards circular economy implementation: 
An agent-based simulation approach for business model changes. 
Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems. 31(6), 1377-1402. 
Linder, M. & Williander, M. (2017) Circular Business Model Innovation: Inherent 
Uncertainties. Business Strategy and the Environment. 26, 182-196. 
Lim, C., Kim, K., Kim, M., Heo, J., Kim, K. & Maglio, P. (2018) From data to value: A 
nine-factor framework for data-based value creation in information-
intensive services. International Journal of Information Management. 39, 
121-135. 
Lopes de, S., Jabbour, C., Godinho Filho, M. & Roubaud, D. (2018) Industry 4.0 and 
the circular economy: A proposed research agenda and original roadmap for 
sustainable operations. Annals of Operations Research. 270(1), 273-286. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Gold, S. & Bocken, N. (2019) A review and typology of circular 
economy business model patterns. Journal of Industrial Ecology. 23(1), 36-
61. 
Manninen, K., Koskela, S., Antikainen, R., Bocken, N., Dahlbo, H. & Aminoff, A. 
(2018) Do circular economy business models capture intended 
environmental value propositions? J Clean Prod. 171, 413-422. 
Matsumoto, M., Yang, S., Martinsen, K. & Kainuma, Y. (2016) Trends and research 
challenges in remanufacturing. International Journal of Precision 
Engineering and Manufacturing - Green Technology. 3(1), 129-142. 
Pieroni, M., McAloone, T. & Pigosso, D. (2019) Business model innovation for 
circular economy and sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 215, 198-216. 
Rajala, R., Hakanen, E., Mattila, J., Seppälä, T. & Westerlund, M. (2018) How do 
intelligent goods shape closed-loop systems? California Management 
Review. 60(3), 20-44. 

 
 
Rajput, S & Singh, S. (2019) Connecting circular economy and industry 4.0. 
International Journal of Information Management. 2019, 49:98-113. 
Ren, S., Zhang, Y., Liu, Y., Sakao, T., Huisingh, D. & Almeida, C. (2019) A 
comprehensive review of big data analytics throughout product lifecycle to 
support sustainable smart manufacturing: A framework, challenges and 
future research directions. Journal of Cleaner Production. 210, 1343-1365. 
Spring, M. & Araujo, L. (2017) Product biographies in servitization and the circular 
economy. Industrial Marketing Management. 60, 126-137. 
Tseng, M., Tan, R., Chiu, A., Chien, C. & Kuo, T. (2018) Circular economy meets 
industry 4.0: Can big data drive industrial symbiosis? Resources Conservation 
and Recycling. 131, 146-147.  
Urbinati, A., Chiaroni, D. & Chiesa, V. (2017) Towards a new taxonomy of circular 
economy business models. Journal of Cleaner Production. 168, 487-498.  
WEF (World Economic Forum). (2016) Intelligent Assets, Unlocking the Circular 
Economy Potential, Industry Agenda. World Economic Forum, Ellen 
MacArthur foundation, McKinsey & Company.  
Zhang, Y., Ren, S., Liu, Y., Sakao, T. & Huisingh, D. (2017) A framework for big data 
driven product lifecycle management. Journal of Cleaner Production. 159, 
229-240. 
Zheng, P., Lin, T., Chen, C. & Xu, X. (2018) A systematic design approach for service 
innovation of smart product-service systems. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
201, 657-667. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS MODELS 
FOR SUSTAINABLE 
ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
TRACK V 

 
 
Track 
V: 
New 
Business 
Models 
for 
Sustainable 
Entrepreneurship 
 
Chairs: Matthew Johnson1, René Mauer2, and Stefan Schaltegger3 
1University of Hamburg, Germany; 2ESCP Europe Berlin; Germany, 3Leuphana 
University Lüneburg, Germany 
 
 
Sustainable entrepreneurship describes the processes of discovery, creation, 
exploitation and growth of business opportunities leading to sustainability-
oriented innovations, value creation and sustainability transformation of markets 
and societies. From startups to large incumbents, entrepreneurial ventures can 
contribute to sustainable development via innovative value propositions and core 
business models aimed at the creative destruction of unsustainable production 
and consumption patterns (Schaltegger & Wagner, 2011). Sustainable 
entrepreneurs generate innovative business models, products and services that 
substantially improve environmental and social performance and overall quality 
of life, which often necessitates change at the institutional level as well (Pacheco 
et al., 2010). 
Different pathways of sustainable entrepreneurship concentrate on the means-
goals relationship. For example, sustainable entrepreneurs may use their given 
means and own ingenuity to develop business models in line with the theory of 
effectuation (Sarasvathy, 2001). As innovations are key to sustainable 
entrepreneurship, new designs like innovative business models, open innovation, 
stakeholder involvement (Fischer et al., in press), and co-creation become 
important areas for further research (Schaltegger, Hansen & Lüdeke-Freund, 
2016). This goes along with the search for new innovative forms of ecopreneurship 
as well as social and sustainable entrepreneurship considering factors that make 
entrepreneurs successful in some industries and national markets whereas they 
do not or barely exist in other industries and markets. 
Based on the classification of sustainable entrepreneurship, research is 
encouraged to identify processes, paths and factors of success towards achieving 
sustainable entrepreneurship. Research is also needed to further explore 
successful and unsuccessful practices and how sustainable entrepreneurship 
could be supported by innovative business models. While approaches like the 
planetary boundaries concept (Rockström et al., 2008) and the UN Sustainable 

 
 
Development Goals (SDGs) can serve as inspiration and reference frameworks 
(e.g. Schaltegger, Beckmann, & Hockerts, 2018a, b; Fischer et al, 2017), the 
knowledge and application of certain tools (e.g. business model canvas, in Breuer 
et al., 2018) may be helpful to support the sustainable entrepreneurship 
development process. 
References / Further Reading 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Tiemann, I. (2018), “Requirements 
for sustainability-oriented business model development”, International 
Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing. Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 256-286. 
Fischer, D.; Brettel, M.; Mauer, R. (in press): The Three Dimensions of 
Sustainability: A Delicate Balancing Act for Entrepreneurs Made More 
Complex by Stakeholder Expectations, Journal of Business Ethics, 
doi.org/10.1007/s10551-018-4012-1. 
Fischer, D.; Mauer, R.; Brettel, M. (2017): Regulatory Focus Theory and Sustainable 
Entrepreneurship, in: International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behavior & 
Research, doi.org/10.1108/IJEBR-12-2015-0269. 
Pacheco, D.F., Dean, T.J. and Payne, D.S., 2010), “Escaping the green prison: 
Entrepreneurship and the creation of opportunities for sustainable 
development”, Journal of Business Venturing, Vol. 25, No. 5, pp. 464-480. 
Rockström, J., Steffen, W., Noone, K., Persson, Å., Chapin III, F.S., Lambin, E.F., 
Lenton, T.M., Scheffer, M., Folke, C., Schellnhuber, H.J. and Nykvist, B. 
(2009), “A safe operating space for humanity”, Nature, Vol. 461, No. 7263, 
p.472. 
Sarasvathy, S.D. (2001), “Causation and effectuation: Toward a theoretical shift 
from economic inevitability to entrepreneurial contingency”, Academy of 
Management Review, Vol. 26, No. 2, pp. 243-263. 
Schaltegger, S., Beckmann, M. and Hockerts, K. (2018a), “Sustainable 
entrepreneurship: creating environmental solutions in light of planetary 
boundaries”, International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing, Vol. 10, No. 
1, pp. 1-16. 
Schaltegger, S., Beckmann, M. and Hockerts, K. (2018b), “Collaborative 
entrepreneurship for sustainability. Creating solutions in light of the UN 
sustainable development goals”, International Journal of Entrepreneurial 
Venturing, Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 131-152. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. and Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016), “Business models for 
sustainability. A co-evolutionary analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, 
innovation and transformation”, Organization & Environment, Vol. 29, No. 
3, pp. 264-289. 

 
 
Schaltegger, S. and Wagner, M. (2011), “Sustainable entrepreneurship and 
sustainability innovation. Categories and interactions”, Business Strategy 
and the Environment, Vol. 20, No. 4, pp. 222-237. 
 
 

 
 
Business model innovation at the 
bottom of the pyramid 
 
Claudia Alba Ortuño1, Nikolay Dentchev1,2, Abel Alan Diaz 
Gonzalez1, Philippe Eiselein1 
1Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium; 2KU Leuven 
 
Abstract 
The Bottom of the Pyramid (BoP) context differentiate from develop economies 
because of their limited access to resources, weak legal institutions, market 
fragmentation and others (Goyal et al. 2016). Nevertheless, they are the ones that 
require actions that will take people out of poverty. Entrepreneurship and 
Business Model Innovation (BMI) seems like an alternative for the development of 
the BoP. The constraints that they have should be used to redesign and innovate 
in products and business models. This led us to the following research question 
“How can BMI be used to overcome the challenges of the enterprises at the BoP?”. 
We developed a qualitative study in Bolivia -the poorest country of Latin America 
based in GDP-. The study was done through a methodological triangulation. It 
included the analysis of documentation and statistic data, observation, semi-
structured interviews and focus groups. As preliminary results, we can say that 
most of the ventures have products that already exist in the market with a minimal 
differentiation. More relevant, in most of the cases, their value proposition is very 
vague, their market segment is too broad, their competitive strategies do not 
present a real challenge to be replicated and they have problems to successfully 
reach their markets. All these things can be summarized in weak business models, 
however we are still analyzing the information. 
Keywords 
bottom of the pyramid, entrepreneurial ecosystems, business model innovation 

 
 
Business model innovation for the 
SDGs: Towards a performance 
measurement system 
 
Francesco Rosati1, Vinícius P. Rodrigues2, Federico Cosenz3, Jason Li-
Ying1 
1Technical University of Denmark (DTU), Denmark; 2Insper Institute of 
Education and Research, Brazil; 3University of Palermo, Italy 
 
Abstract 
Business model innovation can be a key element for realizing the transformation 
needed to accomplish the Sustainable Development Goals. However, literature on 
Sustainable Business Models still lacks quantitative-oriented approaches and tools 
supporting the implementation and assessment of business model innovations for 
sustainability. This study proposes an eight-phase performance measurement 
system supporting organisations in implementing, assessing and managing 
business model innovations aiming at contributing to the Sustainable 
Development Goals. The performance measurement system builds upon 
literature on business model innovation for sustainability, performance 
measurement and management, and sustainable development, and it is 
developed through a constructive research approach. The proposed performance 
measurement system considers three sustainable business model dimensions (i.e. 
sustainable value creation and delivery, value proposition, and value capture), and 
various sub-dimensions, aiming to inspire different opportunities for advancing 
business model innovation for the Sustainable Development Goals. This study 
brings a novel contribution to both performance measurement and sustainable 
business model literature, by suggesting the use of performance measures for 
driving the implementation and operationalization of sustainable business model 
innovations. 
 
 

 
 
Keywords 
business model innovation, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), sustainability, 
Performance Measurement System (PMS) 

 
 
Circular business model innovation 
tools and approaches: A literature and 
practice review 
 
Julia L.K. Nußholz, Lars Strupeit, Katherine Whalen, Nancy Bocken 
Lund University, Sweden 
 
Abstract 
In a future circular economy, new business models are needed that are capable of 
slowing, closing and narrowing resource loops and address key resource and 
climate challenges. After a phase of excitement and inspiration, there is a need for 
a ‘operationalisation’ phase to ensure effective implementation of circular 
practices and the desired sustainability outcomes. This operationalisation phase 
will involve the development of business models with significantly improved 
resource efficiency, environmental and social impacts. To provide guidance in 
designing circular business models, a broad range of methods and tools has been 
developed in the recent years. This paper presents an overview of the existing 
tools and methods developed through a systematic review of academic and 
practitioner literature. Tools are analysed and presented along four coding 
dimensions: (1) purpose, (2) characteristics and form, (3) user group, and (4) 
validation. The overview seeks to provide structure to the landscape of tools, 
identify synergies between existing tools, and frame the research agenda to 
facilitate more concerted efforts in the development of tools for circular business 
model innovation. A comprehensive tool database is provided that presents tools 
ac-cording to their different purposes and characteristics and enables 
practitioners to select tools that fit their specific context and objectives. Gaps in 
the existing tool landscape are highlighted and suggestion for future research 
provided, including the development of more integrated tools to effectively 
support practitioners throughout the business model innovation process. 
 
 

 
 
Keywords 
circular economy; innovation; circular business model; experimentation; 
effectuation. 

 
 
Demand side management and 
renewable energy business models for 
energy transition 
 
Michael Hamwi1,2, Iban Lizarralde1 
1ESTIA, France; 2IMS, UMR 5218 
 
Abstract 
Recent developments in technology have been considered a critical factor in 
fighting climate change and accelerating energy transition. These developments 
are changing the current centralized and fossil fuel-based energy system into a 
new system with integrated renewable energy resources. The developments also 
facilitate the emergence of new business models and allow entrepreneurs to 
propose new products and services. This paper aims to identify the existent energy 
business models based on a systematic literature review, focusing on two main 
areas: renewable energy and demand-side management. With that purpose, a 
framework is described including specific characteristics for energy business 
models. Based on this framework, 22 different energy business models are 
presented clustered in eight patterns. The study draws on an exhaustive picture 
of the emerging business models and provides insights for researchers and for 
early-stage companies to innovate through business model transformation. 
Keywords 
business model, energy services, energy entrepreneur, renewable energy, 
demand-side management 
 
 

 
 
Integrating Circularity Into The  
Business Model Innovation process 
The Importance Of The Process Behind The Tools 
 
Jeroen Gillabel1,*, Anse Smeets1 
 
1VITO, Boeretang 200, 2400 Mol, Belgium 
 
*Jeroen.gillabel@vito.be 
 
Extended abstract  
Since the rise of circular economy as a major policy topic in Europe, interest in the 
potential of circular business models has increased strongly among companies and 
entrepreneurs. Despite all this interest, and despite the development of a large 
body of research literature about opportunities and barriers related to the circular 
economy (e.g. EEA, 2017; Kirchherr et al., 2018), circular business models are not 
easily adopted by existing companies, nor do circular start-ups have a high success 
rate in finding their way to the market (Reike et al., 2018). This should come as no 
surprise, because 1) companies wanting to implement circular business models, 
depend on the broader societal changes required to achieve a circular economic 
system, such as legislation, taxation, consumer behavior, etc. (EEA, 2016); 2) most 
circular business concepts currently brought to market only target niche markets 
of environmentally aware consumers (Camacho-Otero et al., 2018); 3) circular 
business models often coincide with shifting from production company to service 
company, requiring new competencies, financing solutions, logistics, etc. (Tukker, 
2015); and 4) often, economic success goes at the expense of the 
circularity/sustainability ambition level, or vice versa (EC, 2018).   
Companies engaging in a search towards a circular business model are in need of 
a process and supporting tools that enable them to explore, identify and test 
potentially viable business models that effectively contribute towards increased 
circularity, within the context of a vision on long-term systemic change.  In recent 

 
 
years, many tools and frameworks to characterize circular business models have 
been published (e.g. Bocken et al., 2016; Lewandowski, 2016; Nußholz, 2017; 
Planing, 2015). One communality among such frameworks and tools, is that they 
usually make no distinction between strategies that directly affect circularity, such 
as reuse, repair, or recycling, and strategies that are instrumental to increasing 
circularity, but are not sufficient by themselves. Examples of the latter are 
product-service systems, reverse logistics, or branding.    
Another observation is that tools to support development of circular business 
models are usually not embedded in a structured process for innovation. Yet, 
existing start-up innovation process heuristics such as Lean Start-up (Ries, 2011) 
could be useful for circular business development (Bocken et al., 2018). Integrating 
knowledge and values about circular economy and sustainability in such heuristics 
could greatly spur business innovation in support of a circular economy. The 
iterative approach to learn fast and validate assumptions could be valuable to 
convert a long-term vision on sustainability into actionable steps. This could 
enable entrepreneurs to start experimenting with certain aspects of a possible 
circular business model, without losing sight of longer-term goals that are 
currently not achievable yet due to internal or external barriers. The user-centred 
approach could help to disentangle the goals of a circular business model (to 
increase circularity of production & consumption) from the means (convincing 
customers to buy or use a circular product or service).  
This paper describes the development and testing of 1) a framework and tool to 
guide entrepreneurs or business consultants in the selection of circular strategies 
that fit their specific context, and 2) a support process that integrates circularity 
and sustainability into a lean start-up based coaching scheme.  
The tool described in this paper (Circulator, available online at www.circulator.eu) 
was designed around a conceptual framework that builds on earlier 
sustainable/circular business model typologies (Bocken et al., 2016, 2014), and 
that distinguishes 3 types of strategies: circular value creation strategies (activities 
that directly contribute to circularity), value proposition strategies (activities to 
convince the customer), and value network strategies (activities to collaborate 
with partners in the realization of a circular value network).  Within each category, 
specific strategy examples are included, exemplified with existing business cases 
implementing these strategies. In this way, the framework and tool help 
entrepreneurs to understand the difference between business activities that 
directly contribute to the goal of creating circular impact, and business activities 

 
 
that are rather supportive by for example generating customer demand, or setting 
up the right conditions for product take back.  The Circulator tool was used in a 
business development support approach that integrates circularity and 
sustainability into a lean start-up based coaching scheme. The process was tested 
in four different case studies. The approach, co-created between sustainability 
experts and a business accelerator, consists of a stepwise, iterative process to 
coach the entrepreneur from vision over initial business concept to specific action 
plan and finally the execution of the plan.  
The four companies included in the coaching programme varied in terms of sector, 
company size as well as innovation stage. The sectors included were professional 
lighting, powder coating, electronic waste collection and reuse, and building 
sector. The company size ranged from one-person start-up, very small SME to 
medium-sized enterprise. In addition to individual coaching, the companies could 
make use of ad-hoc topical expertise to help validate assumptions related to their 
business model, on topics such as environmental impact analysis, legislation, 
financing, or technology. To stimulate peer-to-peer learning between the 
participating entrepreneurs, three meetings to exchange experiences were 
organized in the course of the programme. 
All four entrepreneurs indicated that they benefited from having access to a coach 
that structured and accelerated their innovation process. Especially in small SMEs 
and start-ups, a sounding board and sparring partner often lacks. In addition, the 
fact that the coaches helped with the identification of the most suitable circular 
strategies for the context of each company was considered very valuable. This 
suggests that providing stand-alone tools for circular business development, 
without further underpinnings, context and support, are not sufficient to address 
entrepreneurs’ needs. Entrepreneurs are typically focussed on the challenges that 
are directly in front of them, making it difficult to factor in opportunities that 
haven’t materialized yet (e.g. because of lacking legislation). A third benefit of the 
support approach appeared to be the easy access to a wide variety of topical 
expertise. In most cases, the necessary topical support was limited to a few hours 
or days of work. The support programme helped avoiding excessive 
(administrative) costs compared to the individual companies having to search and 
contract such a wide variety of expertise separately. Finally, the peer-to-peer 
learning experience provided considerable added value to the companies. It 
enabled them to exchange general knowledge and practical solutions, but it also 
helped them to understand that experimenting with circular business models is a 
challenge requiring a long term vision and perseverance.   

 
 
Finally, the lessons learned during this programme were used to identify the 
different roles that are needed to provide a successful circular business innovation 
ecosystem. The main needs identified were: a coach/mentor with knowledge of 
circularity/sustainability, a network of knowledge/solution providers, and peer-to-
peer learning networks. For the first, the challenge ahead is to provide business 
consultants and incubators with the appropriate knowledge about circularity and 
sustainability. For the second, there is a clear need for solutions (digital and off-
line) that bring entrepreneurs in contact with a currently scattered landscape of 
solution holders related to finance, legal, technology, etc.  Peer-to-peer learning 
among circular entrepreneurs also requires tools and support, which could be set 
up in business networks. Setting up collaborations between different parties in the 
innovation ecosystem would greatly help to achieve an innovation ecosystem that 
contributes to realization of a circular economy. 
Keywords 
Circular business models, circular strategies, lean start-up, business innovation 
References 
Bocken, N.M.P., Pauw, I. de, Bakker, C., Grinten, B. van der, 2016. Product design 
and business model strategies for a circular economy. J. Ind. Prod. Eng. 33, 
308–320. https://doi.org/10.1080/21681015.2016.1172124 
Bocken, N.M.P., Schuit, C.S.C., Kraaijenhagen, C., 2018. Experimenting with a 
circular business model: Lessons from eight cases. Environ. Innov. Soc. 
Transit. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eist.2018.02.001 
Bocken, N.M.P., Short, S.W., Rana, P., Evans, S., 2014. A literature and practice 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. J. Clean. Prod. 65, 
42–56. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.039 
Camacho-Otero, J., Boks, C., Pettersen, I., Camacho-Otero, J., Boks, C., Pettersen, 
I.N., 2018. Consumption in the Circular Economy: A Literature Review. 
Sustainability 10, 2758. https://doi.org/10.3390/su10082758 
EC, 2018. Environmental potential of the collaborative economy : final report. 
[WWW Document]. URL https://publications.europa.eu/en/publication-
detail/-/publication/8e18cbf3-2283-11e8-ac73-01aa75ed71a1/language-
en/format-PDF (accessed 3.29.18). 
EEA, 2017. Circular By Design - Products in the Circular Economy (EEA Report No. 
6/2017). European Environment Agency, Copenhagen. 
EEA, 2016. Circular economy in Europe — Developing the knowledge base (EEA 
Report No. 2/2016). European Environment Agency. 

 
 
Kirchherr, J., Piscicelli, L., Bour, R., Kostense-Smit, E., Muller, J., Huibrechtse-
Truijens, A., Hekkert, M., 2018. Barriers to the Circular Economy: Evidence 
From 
the 
European 
Union 
(EU). 
Ecol. 
Econ. 
150, 
264–272. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolecon.2018.04.028 
Lewandowski, M., 2016. Designing the Business Models for Circular Economy—
Towards 
the 
Conceptual 
Framework. 
Sustainability 
8, 
43. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su8010043 
Nußholz, J.L.K., 2017. Circular Business Models: Defining a Concept and Framing 
an 
Emerging 
Research 
Field. 
Sustainability 
9, 
1810. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su9101810 
Planing, P., 2015. Business Model Innovation in a Circular Economy Reasons for 
Non-Acceptance of Circular Business Models. Open J. Bus. Model Innov. 
Reike, D., Vermeulen, W.J.V., Witjes, S., 2018. The circular economy: New or 
Refurbished as CE 3.0? — Exploring Controversies in the Conceptualization 
of the Circular Economy through a Focus on History and Resource Value 
Retention Options. Resour. Conserv. Recycl., Sustainable Resource 
Management 
and 
the 
Circular 
Economy 
135, 
246–264. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2017.08.027 
Ries, E., 2011. The lean startup: how today’s entrepreneurs use continuous 
innovation to create radically successful businesses, 1. ed. ed. Crown 
Business, New York, NY. 
Tukker, A., 2015. Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy – 
a review. J. Clean. Prod., Special Volume: Why have ‘Sustainable Product-
Service 
Systems’ 
not 
been 
widely 
implemented? 
97, 
76–91. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.049 
 
 

 
 
Investigation of Sustainability Aspects 
in Business Models of Early Phase 
Start-ups 
A Multiple Case Study of Start-up Project Teams in 
an Academic Start-up Accelerator Program 
 
Martin Glinik1,*, Michael Rachinger1, Stefan Vorbach1,  
 
1Graz University of Technology, Institute of General Management and 
Organisation 
 
*martin.glinik@tugraz.at 
 
Abstract  
Business Models are tools that are commonly used by sustainable entrepreneurs 
to create and develop their ventures. Knowledge about the development of 
sustainable business models before entrepreneurs launch their ventures is still 
surprisingly scarce. We address this research gap using data from an academic 
start-up accelerator program that was developed to support entrepreneurs during 
the foundation process.  
Keywords 
Sustainability, 
Business 
Models, 
Sustainable 
Entrepreneurship, 
Start-up 
Accelerator 
 
 

 
 
Introduction and Purpose 
The term business model (BM) is widely used in the academic start-up literature 
and represents a central construct in entrepreneurship research (George and Bock 
2011; Trimi and Berbegal-Mirabent, 2012). George and Bock (2011) stated that 
BMs are major tools that can be used by entrepreneurs to create and develop 
ventures. Schaltegger and Wagner (2011) argued that entrepreneurial capability 
can be utilized to address sustainable development. Sustainable entrepreneurs 
make a voluntary commitment to create social and environmental value beyond 
the value of conventional business ventures whilst simultaneously creating 
economic value (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2017). However, according to Stubbs and 
Cocklin (2008), sustainability is mostly attributed to single elements of the BM, 
rather than multiple dimensions of the BM. Boons et al. (2013) argued that 
companies need to combine several BM elements regarding the three dimensions 
of sustainability (economic, environmental, and social) to operate sustainably. 
Nevertheless, entrepreneurs who strive for sustainability face a key challenge 
when attempting to maintain economic value whilst increasing social or 
environmental value (Austin et al., 2006). Additionally, entrepreneurs in start-ups 
often use trial-and-error methods during the initial phases of BM design (Sosna et 
al., 2010).  
The research on sustainability aspects in early phases of BM design in start-ups is 
still surprisingly scarce. To address this gap, we used data collected in a four-
month study on start-up project teams in an academic start-up accelerator. With 
the full access provided by the academic start-up accelerator, we investigated the 
BMs of selected start-up project teams. The focus of the investigation was the 
development of sustainability in elements of the entrepreneurs’ BMs. 
Furthermore, drivers that led to aspects of sustainability in the BMs of start-up 
project teams were identified as part of this work. We addressed the following 
research questions: 
(a) What BM elements incorporate aspects of sustainability during the early 
phases of start-up project teams? 
(b) What drives the development of sustainability aspects in BMs during the early 
phases of start-up project teams? 
 

 
 
Method  
Data selection 
In this study, an investigation was carried out of ten start-up project teams that 
consisted of up to four people who were part of the four-month start-up 
accelerator program “Gründungsgarage” hosted at the Graz University of 
Technology. All investigated teams participated in the academic start-up 
accelerator from October 2018 to January 2019. Due to the early dropout of one 
team, the number of active teams was reduced to nine. In a first step, following 
the logic of purposive sampling as described by Flick (2005), we screened the 
application documents of the nine remaining teams for aspects of social as well as 
ecological sustainability. Based on the findings, we selected three teams that 
promised to offer valuable insights into the design of early-phase sustainable BMs 
in start-ups. 
Data collection 
We investigated the three selected start-up project teams using a multiple case 
study approach (Eisenhardt, 1989; Yin, 2009; Gioia 2012). The focus of the 
investigation was the start-up project team’s BM both within and outside the 
start-up accelerator program. We used multiple qualitative methods to triangulate 
our findings. First, predefined documents required by the start-up accelerator 
were collected at discrete timepoints over a four-month period. These documents 
included written applications for the accelerator program that outlined the project 
teams’ initial start-up ideas. Second, the Business Model Canvas (BMC) of each 
entrepreneurial team was evaluated at discrete timepoints during the four-month 
period of the investigation (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010). Third, over the four-
month investigation period, multiple semi-structured interviews were conducted 
with members of the start-up project teams. The interview guide covered topics 
regarding the BM components as well as the development of the components over 
time. We transcribed all interviews in full. In addition, two of the authors 
communicated with team members throughout their time in the four-month 
accelerator program. Finally, available information from the websites of the 
successful founding teams was gathered to complement information in the 
documents and the interview data. Table 1 provides an overview of the 
investigated start-up project teams and the collected data. 
 

 
 
Data analysis 
All written material was evaluated using a qualitative content analysis method as 
described by Mayring (2010) using the software “QCAmap”. We applied inductive 
codes to paraphrase items. Furthermore, we included timestamps to indicate 
when the respective data had been collected in our coding system so we could 
observe changes in the investigated BMs of the start-up project teams. In addition, 
as proposed by Mayring (2010), “intra-coder reliability” as well as “inter-coder 
reliability” was checked by two individual researchers. The codes identified were 
subsequently assigned to main themes, following the clustering logic proposed by 
Gioia (2012).  
 
Table 1: Overview of investigated cases and empirical data collected. 
  
Start-up 
project team 
Datapoint 0 
(Application 
Documents) 
Datapoint 1 
(one month 
after start) 
Interview 1 
BMC 1 
Datapoint 2 
(four months 
after start) 
Interview 2; 
BMC 2 
Current status 
of start-up 
A 
“Alphawood” 
A0 
A1 
A2 
Founding in 
progress 
B 
“Clean 
Connect” 
B0 
B1 
B2 
Founded 
(website 
available) 
C 
“Mady Pure” 
C0 
C1 
C2 
Founded 
(website 
available) 
 
Results 
In the following section, the results collected from the three investigated teams 
are presented in detail. The structure of the analysis was partly guided by the main 
BMI dimensions of value proposition, value creation and value capture (Clauss, 
2016). Furthermore, the general aspects of sustainability and their respective 
drivers are described in detail. 
 

 
 
Case 1: Alphawood  
General aspects of sustainability in the BM: The start-up project Alphawood 
provides an upcycling product by transforming wood waste into wall panels for 
interior use (A0, A1). Thus, Alphawood places an emphasis on local manufacturing 
as well as local sourcing, indicating the ecological and social aspects of its business 
plan in its BM. 
 
Value Proposition: Alphawood’s initial business plan was to offer easy-to-install 
wall panels for interior use.  Alphawood initially used waste materials as a basic 
resource but did not explicitly emphasize sustainability aspects in its BM (A0). 
However, by the time the first interview was held, Alphawood’s project leader had 
decided to include environmental sustainability in his value proposition by 
communicating an added value through the use of waste materials. In addition, 
Alphawood contributes to social responsibility by focusing on local production to 
create and secure local jobs (A1).  
 
Value Creation: In addition to internal activities related to the manufacturing 
process that uses ecologically sustainable resources, the procurement of local 
resources was also identified as an essential element influencing its sustainability 
in the BM. We recognized that Alphawood had a strong commitment towards local 
value creation and local sourcing (A1, A2). A precondition for all initiatives towards 
sustainability was the economic sustainability of the venture (A1, A2).  
 
Value Capture: In both interviews (A1, A2), the respondent mentioned the 
effects of sustainability on pricing. He argued that sustainability led to higher costs 
for resources and, subsequently, to lower profit margins when initially launching 
the product on the market (A1, A2).  
 
Drivers for sustainability in the BM: Easy access to waste materials and the 
subsequent opportunity to create value out of waste were the initial triggers that 
led Alphawood to offer a sustainable product on the market (A0). However, the 
sustainability of the product was seen more as a means to support the main value 
proposition by improving living spaces (A0). Alphawood’s team members 
indicated that the inclusion of sustainability aspects in the BM has been primarily 
driven by marketing motives to improve sales arguments and that these aspects 
are actively communicated to customers to differentiate the company from 
competitors. (A1, A2). 
 

 
 
Case 2: Clean Connect 
 
General aspects of sustainability in the BM: The start-up Clean Connect 
develops a clothing sensor for bedridden people who suffer from incontinence and 
are in need of incontinence protection. The sensor notifies the nursing staff if the 
absorbent material needs to be changed. This increases the quality of life for the 
affected persons (B0, B1). Due to a leasing model, the clothing sensors need to be 
made of durable and recyclable materials. Clean Connect’s BM, therefore, shows 
aspects of ecological as well as social sustainability (B1, B2).  
Value proposition: By using a clothing sensor, the number of nightly routine 
checks by nursing staff who care for bedridden people can be reduced. On the one 
hand, this potentially leads to an increase in the labor productivity of the nursing 
staff and, on the other hand, to an improvement in the life quality of the affected 
person (B1). Clean Connect addresses mainly hospitals and nursing homes and 
sees sustainability only as an addition to its main value proposition (B2).  
Value creation: The interviews showed that Clean Connect attached particular 
importance to social responsibility in terms of the company’s development 
regarding human resources (B1, B2). Clean Connect pursues a growth strategy that 
guarantees long-term jobs and wants to avoid fluctuations in employees (B1, B2). 
Moreover, the entrepreneurial team mentioned that local production and local 
sourcing is desired for ecological reasons. However, Clean Connect also referred 
to reasons other than sustainability which led to the inclusion of ecological aspects 
in the BM, for example, the local sourcing of manufacturing. In that regard, the 
reasons were the availability of local supply chain partners and the perceived 
threat of patent theft when outsourcing to manufacturers abroad (B1, B2).  
Value capture: Clean Connect is aware that their customers (hospitals and 
nursing homes) will not necessarily pay extra for a sustainable product. Therefore, 
sustainability is more of a side effect of the main value proposition (B1, B2). 
Nonetheless, Clean Connect decided to follow a durable product design using 
recyclable materials. The crucial point that influenced their choice to use a product 
design that conserved resources was the introduction of a leasing model (B2) 
rather than selling the product as originally planned (B0, B1).  
Drivers for sustainability in the BM: Clean Connect indicated that it considered 
social aspects in that it developed a solution to improve the quality of life of 
incontinent people. (B0). A driver for ecological sustainability in the BM was the 

 
 
introduction of a leasing model. Therefore, defective products are returned 
instead of being discarded (B2), subsequently reducing their environmental 
impact. Another effect of the leasing model is that it requires durable product 
designs (B2) and minimizes waste. 
Case 3: Mady Pure 
General aspects of sustainability in the BM: The start-up Mady Pure provides 
affordable dog food based on insect-derived protein (C0). Using insects to produce 
food requires fewer resources and generates less carbon dioxide (C0, C1). 
Therefore, Mady Pure’s BM shows aspects of ecological as well as social 
sustainability. 
Value proposition: Mady Pure initially addressed environmentally aware dog 
owners who were looking for a long-term dietary solution for dogs with allergies. 
(C0). Mady Pure considered the environmental sustainability of the developed 
product to be an additional value that could be offered to a specific type of 
environmentally aware customer (C1). In that regard, environmental sustainability 
distinguishes Mady Pure’s product from other products on the market. 
Sustainability in other areas of the BM was initially not a major concern (C1). 
However, Mady Pure was aware early on that communicating a sustainable value 
proposition to customers requires transparency (C1). At a later stage, the focus on 
targeting owners of dogs with allergies was more heavily emphasized (C2). It was 
interesting to note that the focus on environmentally aware customers was partly 
dropped (C2) at this later stage of BM-development. Sustainability aspects were 
seen as by-products of providing dog food for dogs with allergies (C2). However, 
demonstrating sustainability through transparency drew attention to the BM 
design, allowing Mady Pure to convey additional value to the customer and 
increase customer loyalty.  
Value Creation: Key manufacturing partners enable the creation of a 
sustainable value proposition, for example, by supplying insect protein (C1). 
Producing protein from insects is more efficient than producing protein from 
animal sources (C1, C2). In addition, insects can potentially be fed on organic 
waste, enhancing the BMs overall sustainability (C1, C2). Furthermore, Mady Pure 
attempts to find more local suppliers in Europe despite the fact that alternatives 
are available in Asia (C1). However, the founder stated at a later point that 
financial aspects were central to the selection of suppliers, while that 
environmental sustainability played only a secondary role. Mady Pure further 

 
 
highlighted the need to increase the transparency of the operations along the 
start-up's supply chain (C1). At a later stage, Mady Pure also emphasized lean 
operations (C2). The decision to add sustainability aspects, such as sustainable 
packaging, is heavily influenced by the respective economic feasibility (C2).  
Value Capture: The communication of sustainability was mentioned to justify 
the higher sale prices of Mady Pure’s products (C1, C2). Mady Pure emphasized 
that its BM has to be economically sustainable above all (C2). 
Drivers for sustainability in the BM: Mady Pure’s BM was enabled by changes 
in governmental regulations regarding animal food (C2). The need to address 
targeted, environmentally aware customers was initially a driver for the inclusion 
of sustainability aspects in Mady Pure’s BM (C1). It was interesting to note that 
this focus on environmental aware customers shifted towards specifically 
addressing the needs of particular customers (C2). Therefore, sustainability is 
more of a side effect of the main value proposition (C2). In the long run, a driver 
for the inclusion of sustainability in the BM was the need to demonstrate 
sustainability and justify the higher sale price of Mady Pure’s product and 
differentiate it from competitors (C2).  
Discussion and conclusions  
We provide evidence from an academic start-up accelerator, which was collected 
while examining the early development of start-up project teams’ BMs towards 
sustainability. In addition, this work allowed us to identify drivers for the inclusion 
of sustainability aspects in early developmental phases of start-ups’ BMs. Based 
on our results, our research questions can be addressed as follows: 
What BM elements incorporate sustainability aspects in the early phases of 
entrepreneurial teams? 
In the investigated BMs, ecological sustainability was a by-product of the overall 
value proposition. Ecological sustainability was addressed by using more 
sustainable resources in the value creation activities (A1, A2, C1, C2) of both 
Alphawood and Mady Pure. In the case of Clean Connect, ecological sustainability 
was supported by the development of more durable products and the reuse of 
products (B1, B2). All three cases show an interdependence of social and economic 
benefits, for example, by creating social added value (B1, B2) or creating and 
sustaining local job opportunities (A1, A2). However, the start-up projects did not 

 
 
holistically include sustainability in their BM, a finding that is consistent with the 
findings of Heir (2016) and Stubbs and Cocklin (2008). 
What drives the development of sustainability aspects in BMs in the early phases 
of entrepreneurial teams? 
Although the approaches differed, similar drivers influenced the investigated 
entrepreneurial teams, encouraging them to include sustainability aspects in their 
BMs. In all three cases, the inclusion of aspects of ecological or social sustainability 
in the BM was not the main focus of the entrepreneurs. However, the inclusion of 
sustainability aspects was seen as a way they could differentiate themselves from 
competitors (A1, A2, C2). We discovered that their social and economic benefits 
were interdependent, which agrees with the findings of Spieth et al. (2018). 
Furthermore, the need for transparency was mentioned as a way to communicate 
a BMs sustainability and as a means to justify higher sale prices (A0, A2, C2), which 
then affected value capture (A1, A2, B1, B2, C1, C2). In that regard, we extended 
the findings of Davies and Chambers (2018). In addition, Clean Connect’s BM, 
based on a leased product, required the development of durable products that 
later contributed to the BMs overall sustainability (A2). Other factors that were 
investigated and that entrepreneurs perceived were changes in regulations (C2) 
and the possibility to upcycle waste products (A1, C1). 
Limitations and further research 
Data were included from only three cases of sustainable start-up project teams, 
which were involved in a time-limited academic start-up accelerator program. Due 
the qualitative nature of our research, the generalizability of our results is limited. 
Further research could be carried out to address the development of founded 
sustainable start-ups and the subsequent development of sustainability aspects of 
their BM over time.  
References 
Austin, James; Stevenson, Howard; Wei-Skillern, Jane (2006): Social and 
Commercial 
Entrepreneurship: 
Same, 
Different, 
or 
Both? 
In: 
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice 30 (1), pp. 1–22. 
Clauss, Thomas. (2016): Measuring business model innovation: Conceptualization, 
scale development, and proof of performance. In: R&D Management 47(3), 
pp. 385–403. 

 
 
Dean, Thomas J.; McMullen, Jeffery S. (2007): Toward a theory of sustainable 
entrepreneurship: 
Reducing 
environmental 
degradation 
through 
entrepreneurial action. In: Journal of Business Venturing 22 (1), pp. 50–76. 
Eisenhardt, Kathleen M. (1989): Building Theories from Case Study Research. In: 
AMR 14 (4), pp. 532–550. 
Flick, Uwe (2005): Qualitative Sozialforschung. Eine Einführung. Orig.-Ausg., vollst. 
überarb. und erw. Neuausg., 3. Aufl. Reinbek bei Hamburg: Rowohlt-
Taschenbuch-Verl. (Rororo Rowohlts Enzyklopädie, 55654). 
George, Gerard; Bock, Adam J. (2011): The Business Model in Practice and its 
Implications for Entrepreneurship Research. In: Entrepreneurship Theory 
and Practice 35 (1), pp. 83–111.  
Gioia, Dennis A.; Corley, Kevin G.; Hamilton, Aimee L. (2013): Seeking Qualitative 
Rigor in Inductive Research. In: Organizational Research Meth0ods 16 (1), 
pp. 15–31. 
Lüdeke-Freund, Florian; Freudenreich, Birte; Schaltegger, Stefan; Saviuc, Iolanda; 
Stock, Marten (2017): Sustainability-Oriented Business Model Assessment—
A Conceptual Foundation. In: Elias G. Carayannis und Stavros Sindakis (Hg.): 
Analytics, Innovation, and Excellence-Driven Enterprise Sustainability, Bd. 
17. New York: Palgrave Macmillan US, pp. 169–206. 
Mayring, Philipp (2010): Qualitative Inhaltsanalyse. In: Günter Mey und Katja 
Mruck (Hg.): Handbuch Qualitative Forschung in der Psychologie. 1. Aufl. 
Wiesbaden: VS, Verl. für Sozialwiss, pp. 601–613. 
Morris, Michael; Schindehutte, Minet; Allen, Jeffrey (2005): The entrepreneur's 
business model: toward a unified perspective. In: Journal of Business 
Research 58 (6), pp. 726–735. 
Osterwalder, Alexander; Pigneur, Yves (2010): Business model generation. A 
handbook for visionaries, game changers, and challengers. Hoboken, NJ: 
Wiley. 
Schaltegger, Stefan; Hansen, Erik G.; Lüdeke-Freund, Florian (2016): Business 
Models for Sustainability. In: Organization & Environment 29 (1), pp. 3–10. 
Schaltegger, Stefan; Wagner, Marcus (2011): Sustainable entrepreneurship and 
sustainability innovation: categories and interactions. In: Bus. Strat. Env. 20 
(4), pp. 222–237. 
Schick, Hildegard; Marxen, Sandra; Freimann, Jrgen (2002): Sustainability Issues 
for Start-up Entrepreneurs. In: Greener Management International 2002 
(38), pp. 56–70. 
Sosna, Marc; Trevinyo-Rodriguez, Rosa Nelly; Velamuri, S. Ramakrishna (2010): 
Business Model Innovation through Trial-and-Error Learning. In: Long Range 
Planning 43 (2-3), pp. 383-407. 

 
 
Spieth, Patrick; Schneider, Sabrina; Clauß, Thomas; Eichenberg, Daniel (2018): 
Value drivers of social businesses: A business model perspective. In: Long 
Range Planning, p 8-12. 
Trimi, Silvana; Berbegal-Mirabent, Jasmina (2012): Business model innovation in 
entrepreneurship. In: Int Entrep Manag J 8 (4), pp. 449–465. 
Yin, Robert K. (2009): Case study research. Design and methods. 4. ed. Los Angeles: 
SAGE (Applied social research methods series, 5) 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Learning-by-playing: the serious game 
Risk&RACE as a tool to support 
circular economy business model 
innovation at a company level 
 
Saskia Manshoven1,*, Jeroen Gillabel1  
 
1Flemish Institute for Technological research - VITO NV, Boeretang 
200, B-2400 Mol 
 
*Saskia.Manshoven@vito.be 
 
Extended abstract  
Over the past decades, increasing concerns have risen about the long-term 
viability of our linear economy model, fuelled by increasing resource extraction 
rates and generation of emissions and waste. Moving towards a Circular Economy 
is often put forward in policy documents as a strategy to decouple consumption 
from resource use, without sacrificing economic growth (Ghisellini et al., 2016). 
Also companies are showing increasing interest in the opportunities circular 
economy business models have in store. Circular economy targeted business 
model innovation aims at improving resource efficiency and effectiveness, by 
adapting product design, material choices and end-of-life management and by 
changing the way products are put on the market (Bocken et al., 2016; Nußholz, 
2017; Pieroni et al., 2019). Recently, a multitude of education programs and online 
courses have been developed to educate students, entrepreneurs and the wider 
public about circular economy principles and case studies (Coursera, 2019; Ellen 
MacArthur Foundation, 2018). Still, knowledge transfer remains mostly 
theoretical and abstract. Game-based learning tools are gaining attention as 
effective ways to transfer knowledge on complex topics to a broad audience (Qian 
and Clark, 2016). Recently, a number of serious games have been developed to 
improve the understanding of sustainable entrepreneurship and business model 
innovation (Gatti et al., 2019; La Guardia et al., 2014; Laurischkat and 
Viertelhausen, 2017). Also in the field of Circular Economy, game-based learning 

 
 
approaches are emerging for use in education and awareness raising programs 
(ResCoM, 2019; Whalen et al., 2018). Most of these games focus on the overall 
resource challenges and sustainability issues that trigger the need for a circular 
economy, but not on the internal business implications of implementing circular 
material strategies and business model innovation at a company level.  
The business game Risk&RACE was developed to address this need for a hands-on 
tool that addresses the business perspective of circular economy in a company 
context. It aims to bridge the gap between theory and practice by offering a hands-
on business simulation that lets players experience the operational and financial 
drivers and drawbacks of investing in circular business strategies (Tura et al., 
2019). Also the pressures that companies experience from the external business 
environment, such as legislation, market fluctuations and supply constraints are 
mirrored in the game. The game was developed in an iterative way, based on 
extensive user-testing and feedback. To add to the effectiveness of the gameplay, 
a workshop approach was developed to embed the game in entrepreneurship 
courses and business consulting trajectories as a tool to trigger business ideas and 
raise discussion about circular economy opportunities and challenges. 
This paper provides an overview of the game development process and the way 
circular economy strategies and business models were incorporated in the game 
mechanics. It also describes the workshop format that was developed and 
presents the results from a series of testing sessions with different target groups: 
undergraduate students in engineering, economics and design curricula, 
entrepreneurs, business consultants, company executives and financial advisors. 
The immediate impact of the game experience on participants’ understanding of 
circular economy related topics was assessed with pre- and post-workshop 
questionnaires. 
Based on these questionnaires, it can be concluded that students highly 
appreciated the realistic and hands-on nature of the game, encouraging them to 
think and act as an entrepreneur. Its experience-based approach was welcomed 
as a refreshing complement to theoretic lessons about sustainable 
entrepreneurship. Professional players praised how the game made the 
complexity of circular strategies tangible and the way in which it stimulated 
reflection, discussion, strategic thinking and idea-generation. All target groups 
indicated their knowledge about circular economy concepts and business models 
had benefited from the gaming experience. Around 60% of respondents reported 
an improved understanding of business concepts, such as return on investment, 

 
 
payback time, fixed and variable costs and product-service-systems. Knowledge of 
circular material management strategies benefited even more from the gaming 
experience, as between 70-90% of respondents indicated an improved 
understanding of concepts such as remanufacturing, circular design, substitution, 
resource efficiency and recycling. These self-evaluation results could be confirmed 
by analysis of pre- and post-game answers to open questions such as “what are 
advantages and disadvantages of remanufacturing”. During post-game 
debriefings, players often mentioned the following eye-openers: the importance 
of design on the potential for remanufacturing and lifetime extension of products, 
the long-term effect of recycling inefficiencies on material loss and the challenge 
of upfront investments when applying product-service models. 
Furthermore, the paper reports on how the Risk&RACE workshop is used by 
lecturers in entrepreneurship education and by business consultants in the field 
of circular business innovation. Finally, the potential of using the Risk&RACE 
workshop in strategic company planning is discussed. Combined with scenario 
planning, for example, could be used to make entrepreneurs and business 
executives experience the effectiveness of linear and circular business strategies 
in different possible futures.  
Keywords 
circular economy, business model innovation, serious game, entrepreneurship, 
education 
References 
Bocken, N.M.P., Pauw, I. de, Bakker, C., Grinten, B. van der (2016) Product design 
and business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial 
and Production Engineering. 33, 308–320.  
Coursera. (2019). Circular Economy – Sustainable materials management. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.coursera.org/learn/circular-economy/ 
[Accessed 29th January 2019]. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2018). A global snapshot of circular economy 
learning 
offerings 
in 
higher 
education. 
Available 
from: 
https://indd.adobe.com/view/a76263e6-f75f-4f12-bbdc-920c01f42c6f 
[Accessed 29th January 2019]. 

 
 
Gatti, L., Ulrich, M., Seele, P. (2019). Education for sustainable development 
through business simulation games: An exploratory study of sustainability 
gamification and its effects on students’ learning outcomes. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 207, 667–678.  
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., Ulgiati, S. (2016). A review on circular economy: the 
expected transition to a balanced interplay of environmental and economic 
systems. Journal of Cleaner Production. 114, 11–32.  
La Guardia, D., Gentile, M., Dal Grande, V., Ottaviano, S., Allegra, M. (2014). A 
Game based Learning Model for Entrepreneurship Education. Procedia - 
Social and Behavioral Sciences, 4th World Conference on Learning Teaching 
and Educational Leadership (WCLTA-2013) 141, 195–199.  
Laurischkat, K., Viertelhausen, A. (2017). Business Model Gaming: A Game-Based 
Methodology for E-Mobility Business Model Innovation. Procedia CIRP, 9th 
CIRP IPSS Conference: Circular Perspectives on PSS 64, 115–120.  
Nußholz, J.L.K. (2017). Circular Business Models: Defining a Concept and Framing 
an Emerging Research Field. Sustainability. 9, 1810.  
Pieroni, M.P.P., McAloone, T.C., Pigosso, D.C.A. (2019). Business model innovation 
for circular economy and sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 215, 198–216.  
Qian, M., Clark, K.R., 2016. Game-based Learning and 21st century skills: A review 
of recent research. Computers in Human Behavior. 63, 50–58.  
ResCoM. (2019). Lease or Buy - ResCoM Serious Game. Available from: 
https://www.rescoms.eu/platform-and-tools [Accessed 29th January 2019]. 
Tura, N., Hanski, J., Ahola, T., Ståhle, M., Piiparinen, S., Valkokari, P. (2019). 
Unlocking circular business: A framework of barriers and drivers. Journal of 
Cleaner Production. 212, 90–98.  
Whalen, K.A., Berlin, C., Ekberg, J., Barletta, I., Hammersberg, P. (2018). ‘All they 
do is win’: Lessons learned from use of a serious game for Circular Economy 
education. Resources, Conservation and Recycling. 135, 335–345.  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Logic Hybridization in  
Sustainable Entrepreneurship  
A Business Model Perspective 
 
Lisa Heldt1, Matthew Johnson2*,  
Stefan Schaltegger1 
 
1Leuphana University Lüneburg; 
 2University of Hamburg; 
 
*matthew.johnson@uni-hamburg.de 
 
Extended abstract  
This original research paper focuses on the concept of logic hybridization in 
sustainable entrepreneurship, identifying and understanding key processes and 
outcomes through the lens of sustainable business models. Sustainable 
entrepreneurship and business models are considered potentially disruptive 
drivers of sustainable transformations, but there remains a research gap 
concerning the dynamics of how and why they unfold this disruptive potential, or 
fail to do so. The business model approach represents a conceptual representation 
of how sustainable ventures can prioritize environmental, social, and economic 
logics in business processes and value creation.  
The purpose of this paper is to systematically investigate these underlying 
hybridization processes and thereby explain how sustainable entrepreneurship 
connects to and translates into sustainable business models. This paper conducts 
a systematic literature review on sustainable entrepreneurship, hybrid 
organizations, and business models to understand the role of institutional logics, 
particularly the hybridization of environmental, social and business logics, in 
shaping sustainable ventures' behavior and business models. A conceptual, 
process-based framework is developed that explains how sustainable venture 
characteristics, mission, business models and disruptive potential are linked 

 
 
through hybridization processes, and which barriers and enablers arise in the 
development of a sustainability-oriented enterprise. This framework connects 
existing research and extends the prior theoretical understanding of logic 
configurations by providing a novel, synergistic perspective on hybrid logics and 
an explanation of how hybridization ties sustainable ventures’ overall values and 
guiding missions to key development mechanisms, including organizational form, 
capabilities, resource acquisition, and inclusion of stakeholders. 
Keywords  
Business models, sustainable entrepreneurship, hybridization, process-based 
view, systematic literature review 
Introduction 
Research interest in both sustainable entrepreneurship (SE) and sustainable 
business models (SBM) is increasing. However, there remains considerable 
uncertainty about how sustainability-oriented entrepreneurs are handling 
challenges related to managing and prioritizing multiple environmental, social and 
financial goals (Olofsson et al. 2018) and about the practical implementation of 
SBMs, their functionality and performance (Piscicelli et al. 2018; Yip and Bocken 
2018). Recent empirical research on SBMs, particularly explorative single case 
studies, try to address this by generating in-depth knowledge, but remain rather 
descriptive and yield limited generalizable insights (Neumeyer and Santos 2018; 
Olofsson et al. 2018; Rossignoli und Lionzo 2018). Furthermore, dominant industry 
logics are repeatedly discussed as a hindering factor for SE and a broader adoption 
of SBMs, particularly in the context of electricity retailing (Olofsson et al. 2018), 
circular SBMs in the textile sect (Stål and Corvellec 2018), or associative 
entrepreneurship (Gallo et al. 2018). To enable broad-scale adoption of SBM’s 
there is a need to generate and diffuse research insights on how to successfully 
prioritize or hybridize environmental, social and financial logics in SBMs (Olofsson 
et al. 2018).  
Taking the perspective of organizational logics, i.e. socially constructed frames of 
thought that assign legitimacy to specific objectives, values and means (Thornton 
2002; York et al. 2016), and thereby shape individuals’ cognitions, decisions, 
behavior and perceptions of reality (Thornton and Ocasio 1999), can provide 
important insights by uncovering how these two research gaps (first, the 
prioritization and hybridization of multiple logics in SE, and second, the 

 
 
functionality and performance of SBMs in implementing this hybridization in 
practice) are connected. Research on hybrid logics is emerging, but the current 
view focuses on hybrid logics as conflicting logics and how to control and minimize 
their negative consequences for the venture, while potential constructive 
synergies between logics are rarely explored. Since the integration of 
sustainability dimensions is the defining, differentiating characteristic of both SE 
and SBMs, the current understanding of hybrid logics seems incomplete and could 
be misguiding.  
This paper, thus, conducts a systematic literature review on hybrid logics in SBMs 
and sustainability-oriented entrepreneurship in order to produce a more 
comprehensive understanding of hybridity and its inhibiting or supporting effects 
on other business aspects. Since the SBM is essentially a representation or concept 
of how SE integrates hybrid logics into business processes and value creation, 
combining these strands of research promises novel insights. Regarding the 
entrepreneurial process in SE it is, for instance, suggested that during opportunity 
identification, a hybrid organizational logic facilitates a greater awareness and 
thus identification of opportunities for simultaneous environmental, social and 
economic value creation compared to other entrepreneurs (Jolink and Niesten 
2015; York et al. 2016). Logics define the underlying rationale guiding decision-
making in sustainable ventures, and they thus hold the potential to provide 
substantial insights into implicit processes and to explain and connect prior 
research findings on SE, SBMs and their disruptive potential. 
Method 
This paper conducts a systematic literature review on hybrid organizations, 
sustainability-oriented entrepreneurship and sustainable business models using 
institutional logics theory as the theoretical lens. A conceptual framework is 
developed based on the literature review findings on social and environmental 
entrepreneurship and transferred to the context of SE, addressing a research gap. 
The conceptual model combines logic configurations and logic hybridization 
processes identified in the literature review with the entrepreneurial process 
model (Morris, Kuratko and Schindehutte 2001). The developed framework 
extends the prior theoretical understanding by conceptualizing SE’s hybrid logic 
configuration and elaborating its interrelations with and implications for the 
different entrepreneurial process steps and business model aspects.  
 
 

 
 
Initial findings  
The hybridization of social, environmental and business logics in SE is structured 
by an overarching goal, i.e. transformative impact on market sustainability (TIMS), 
uniting the three (environmental, social and business) sub-logics, and the 
corresponding guiding principle of maximizing TIMS which structures behavior, 
decision-making and trade-offs. TIMS’ basic understanding as a function of direct 
sustainability impact, i.e. the product’s or service’s environmental and social 
performance, and indirect sustainability impact, i.e. the market reach determining 
their direct impact’s size, creates the characteristic constructive approach to logic 
conflicts and co-creative approach to stakeholders.  
To leverage this potential, it is concluded that sustainable entrepreneurs need to 
consider three aspects for defining business model components: first, integrate 
sustainability logics’ elements throughout all of them; second, ensure they enable 
and facilitate co-creation; third, define them in a precise and specific, yet inclusive 
way to foster self-selection. 
Key contributions and implications  
By transferring the hybridization logic to SE, this paper addresses the identified 
research gaps and makes three contributions. First, extending the existing conflict-
focused notion of logics in research with a novel perspective of conflicting logics 
as an asset with synergistic potential, this paper paves the way for a more 
proactive, constructive approach to logic conflicts in SE and their implications on 
the business model. Second, conceptualizing the integrative logic configuration of 
SE as well as its integration process, and reviewing it from an entrepreneurial 
process perspective, this paper complements prior research on what SE is with 
insights on why its characteristics are the way they are and how this impact the 
venture in the course of the entrepreneurial development process. It thereby 
increases the usefulness and implications of previous findings on SE characteristics 
or SBM archetypes by providing their connection. Third, by developing a 
conceptual model linking current logic configurations to SE’s unique logic a formal 
framework is proposed to structure the interface of institutional logics, business 
models and sustainable, environmental and social entrepreneurship research. 

 
 
References 
Bocken, N. M. P., Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014). A literature and practice 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 65, 42–56. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.039 
Davies, I. A., & Chambers, L. (2018). Integrating hybridity and business model 
theory in sustainable entrepreneurship. Journal of Cleaner Production, 177, 
378–386. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.12.196 
Dentchev, N., Rauter, R., Jóhannsdóttir, L., Snihur, Y., Rosano, M., Baumgartner, 
R., … Jonker, J. (2018). Embracing the variety of sustainable business models: 
A prolific field of research and a future research agenda. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 194, 695–703. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.05.156 
Gallo, P. J., Antolin-Lopez, R., & Montiel, I. (2018). Associative Sustainable Business 
Models: Cases in the bean-to-bar chocolate industry. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 174, 905–916. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.11.021 
Hannon, M. J., Foxon, T. J., & Gale, W. F. (2013). The co-evolutionary relationship 
between Energy Service Companies and the UK energy system: Implications 
for 
a 
low-carbon 
transition. 
Energy 
Policy, 
61, 
1031–1045. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2013.06.009 
Hockerts, K., & Wüstenhagen, R. (2010). Greening goliaths versus emerging 
davids: theorizing about the role of incumbents and new entrants in 
sustainable entrepreneurship. Journal of Business Venturing, 25(5), 481–
492. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusvent.2009.07.005 
Jolink, A. & Niesten, E. (2015): Sustainable development and business models of 
entrepreneurs in the organic food industry, Business Strategy and the 
Environment, Vol. 24, No. 6, 386–401. 
Morris, M. H., Kuratko, D. F., & Schindehutte, M. (2001). Towards integration: 
understanding entrepreneurship through frameworks. The International 
Journal 
of 
Entrepreneurship 
and 
Innovation, 
2(1), 
35–49. 
https://doi.org/10.5367/000000001101298765 
Neumeyer, X., & Santos, S. C. (2018). Sustainable business models, venture 
typologies, and entrepreneurial ecosystems: A social network perspective. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
172, 
4565–4579. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.08.216 
Olofsson, S., Hoveskog, M., & Halila, F. (2018). Journey and impact of business 
model innovation: The case of a social enterprise in the Scandinavian 
electricity retail market. Journal of Cleaner Production, 175, 70–81. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.11.081 

 
 
Piscicelli, L., Ludden, G. D. S., & Cooper, T. (2018). What makes a sustainable 
business model successful? An empirical comparison of two peer-to-peer 
goods-sharing platforms. Journal of Cleaner Production, 172, 4580–4591. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.08.170 
Ritala, P., Huotari, P., Bocken, N., Albareda, L., & Puumalainen, K. (2018). 
Sustainable business model adoption among S&P 500 firms: A longitudinal 
content analysis study. Journal of Cleaner Production, 170, 216–226. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.09.159 
Rossignoli, F., & Lionzo, A. (2018). Network impact on business models for 
sustainability: Case study in the energy sector. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
182, 694–704. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.02.015 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Hansen, E. G. (2016). Business models for 
sustainability: a co-evolutionary analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, 
innovation, and transformation. Organization & Environment, 29(3), 264–
289. https://doi.org/10.1177/1086026616633272 
Stål, H. I., & Corvellec, H. (2018). A decoupling perspective on circular business 
model implementation: Illustrations from Swedish apparel. Journal of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
171, 
630–643. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.09.249 
Täuscher, K., & Abdelkafi, N. (2018). Scalability and robustness of business models 
for sustainability: A simulation experiment. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
170, 654–664. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.09.023 
Thornton, P. H. (2002): The rise of the corporation in a craft industry: conflict and 
conformity in institutional logics, Academy of Management Journal, Vol. 45, 
No. 1, 81–101. 
Thornton, P. H. & Ocasio, W. (1999): Institutional logics and the historical 
contingency of pow-er in organizations: executive successions in the higher 
education publishing industry, 1958-1990, American Journal of Sociology, 
Vol. 105, No. 3, 801–843. 
Yip, A. W. H., & Bocken, N. M. P. (2018). Sustainable business model archetypes 
for the banking industry. Journal of Cleaner Production, 174, 150–169. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.10.190 
York, J. G.; Hargrave, T. J. & Pacheco, D. F. (2016). Converging winds: logic 
hybridization in the Colorado wind energy field, Academy of Management 
Journal, Vol. 59, No. 2, 579–610. 
 
 
 

 
 
Poverty Eradication and Political 
Engagement  
A Case of Innovative Business Model of Sustainable 
Entrepreneurship in China 
 
Xuanwei Cao  
 
International Business School Suzhou, Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool 
University, China 
 
*xuanwei.cao@xjtlu.edu.cn  
 
Abstract  
Facing grand challenges when following the old path of ‘business as usual’, 
entrepreneurs are transforming their business practices for sustainable 
development in various ways. In the literature of sustainable entrepreneurship, 
scholars paid little attention to entrepreneurs in transition economy, where 
entrepreneurs have to cope with complex institutional context with multiple, 
competing institutional logics, such as keeping agile between different 
institutional logics such as market logic and government logic to create both 
business values and social values. Informed by the study of entrepreneurship in 
transition economy, with the characteristics of political embeddedness of firms 
and entrepreneurs, this study examines how entrepreneurs explore “socially 
situated opportunities” strategically, i.e., to make sense of social/environmental 
problems with a strategic thinking and turn those problems into business 
opportunities through active political engagement. With the rapid development 
of sustainable business in transition economies, such as renewable energy 
industry in China, innovative business models are being created by emerging 
sustainable entrepreneurs to balance both market logic and government logic 
simultaneously. Through a longitudinal case study of a photo vatic (PV) solar 
energy company in China, this study illustrates the dynamic process of business 
model innovation through which poverty reduction project and PV business 

 
 
opportunities were organically combined. This study contributes the study of 
sustainable entrepreneurship by introducing the political engagement 
perspective. It informs future study with more attentions on the impact of CEO 
activism on business model innovation for sustainability. 
Keywords 
Sustainable entrepreneurship, political engagement, business model innovation. 
Introduction 
In the past four decades, entrepreneurship in every industrial sector in China has 
boomed in the context of rapid transformation of the economy. In this process, 
however, entrepreneurs are confronted with a complex institutional environment 
implying both significant opportunities and attendant risks. For the sake of 
reducing uncertainties caused by these changes, such as industrial policy and 
regulations on the one hand, and seeking or even creating opportunities from 
solidifying legitimacy on the other hand, many entrepreneurs try to maintain good 
relationships with the government. By responding to and engaging in 
government’s initiative to solving certain social problems, such as poverty 
alleviation, which has been officially announced as a must-do task in China’s Five-
Year Plan period (2016-2020), some entrepreneurs could explore new 
opportunities and strengthen the legitimacy of their businesses.  
However, in the process of engaging in government-initiated issues, 
entrepreneurs face great challenges in balancing different institutional logic, i.e., 
the rules that shape the perception and behaviour of actors in an organization's 
field. The institutional logic spectrum includes government logic, market logic, 
religious logic, and family logic (Thornton, 2002).  For example, under government 
logic, entrepreneurs’ perception and strategic behaviours are dependent on 
national policies, so they often attach great importance to the implementation of 
relevant government policies. Under market logic, entrepreneurs would 
emphasize more market-oriented behaviours in pursuit of corporate profits. 
Therefore, it is interesting to observe how entrepreneurs in what is often an 
incomprehensive institutional context pursue their sustainable business and make 
balance and switch between different institutional logics. 
A sustained path of business operation and competitive advantage would be 
impossible if business did not influence its surroundings and environment to 

 
 
achieve co-evolution of the ‘relational framework’ between business and 
government institutions (Child et al., 2012). This raises the issue of the ideology-
critique of entrepreneur studies by Ogbor. He stated that more studies should be 
conducted “by questioning how and why particular ideational systems, 
institutions and belief systems produce and shape the pattern of entrepreneurship 
in contemporary society” (Ogbor, 2000: 630). A recent study shows that 
entrepreneurs from publicly-listed private firms in China had a notable increase 
on getting political appointments, i.e., having closer political connections and 
more engagement with the political leaders and Party officials between 1995 and 
2012 (Li & Liang, 2015).  
The increasing pursuit of political appointment of private-entrepreneurs in recent 
years has its ideological roots in Confucian values. In Confucianism, the ultimate 
purpose of life is that individuals extend themselves to serve the larger community 
and to pursue societal harmony. Thus, successful entrepreneurs with a cultural 
influence from Confucian values have a social orientation, including behaving 
compassionately to promoting social welfare, having concern for the public good, 
contributing to greater commonwealth, and finding the ultimate way toward 
greatness. The pursuit of political appointment of those successful entrepreneurs 
could allow them to fulfill their ideological aspirations towards business and 
society, to give back to society and to promote public welfare while sustaining 
their businesses as well. 
This paper investigates a private-firm entrepreneur in western China who entered 
the solar photovoltaic (PV) business ten years ago and achieved great success both 
economically and socially. This case illustrates how entrepreneurs can turn some 
social issues such as poverty alleviation (SDG#1) into sustainable business 
opportunities through business model innovation. The paper illustrates how an 
entrepreneur’s political engagement can help the transformation towards 
sustainable entrepreneurship by switching between different institutional logics 
and balancing “pro-self” (egoism) and “pro-social” (altruism) value creation. 
Sustainable Entrepreneurship 
Entrepreneurship can help address societal issues such as sustainable 
development (Pacheco et al., 2010; York & Venkataraman, 2010; Schaltegger & 
Wagner, 2011; Pinkse & Groot, 2015). Some scholars, however, remain sceptical 
claiming that “it remains an open question as to whether and, to what extent, 
entrepreneurs have the potential for creating sustainable economies” (Hall et al., 

 
 
2010: 440). Others argue that entrepreneurship has an important role to play in 
transformation towards a more sustainable future (Dean & McMullen, 2007; Belz 
& Binder, 2017). Entrepreneurs are expected to balance the triple bottom lines of 
economic, social and ecological goals (Schaltegger & Wagner, 2011), and thus 
simultaneously pursue economic viability, social equity and environmental 
stability by altering or creating institutions (Pacheco et al., 2010). 
Sustainable entrepreneurship is understood as “the recognition, development and 
exploitation of opportunities by individuals to bring into existence future goods 
and services with economic, social and ecological gains” (Belz & Binder, 2017: 2). 
This definition acknowledges that some entrepreneurs, “unlike Schumpeterian 
entrepreneurs [may be] driven by a social instead of an economic motive” 
(Reinstaller, 2005: 1366). Such entrepreneurs not only wish to capture economic 
value for themselves, but also find new avenues towards social improvement and 
creating social value. Sustainable entrepreneurs address the sustainability of their 
business as well as its ethical and long-term impact on society and on the natural 
environment, rather than blindly pursuing short-term business profit. They have 
the potential to contribute to environmental and social development through 
innovations aimed at the mass market and providing benefit to a larger society 
(Schaltegger & Wagner, 2011). 
Recent studies on entrepreneurs and sustainability reveal that sustainable 
entrepreneurs sometimes become politically active to overcome market barriers 
(Pacheco, Dean, & Payne, 2010; Pinkse & Groot, 2015). Prior studies on political 
strategy focused on how firms use their strategic political resources and 
capabilities to improve their profitability (McWilliams et al. 2002) in Western 
contexts. To understand why entrepreneurs engage in sustainability-oriented 
business and how entrepreneurs secure both ‘pro-self’ and ‘pro-social’ interests, 
we need to develop broader insights beyond the provincial view on getting 
lucrative economic returns as indicated in Pacheco et al.’s study (2010).  
Recently, studies have illustrated that firms do not only have to adapt to 
institutional change but can actually develop considerable power to influence it 
even in immature institutional environment of emerging economies (Dieleman 
and Boddewyn 2012). Entrepreneurial actors are able not only to identify the 
institutional constraints constructed by the social, political and economic context 
within which entrepreneurs are embedded, but also to envision and alternate the 
institutional arrangement (Suddaby et al., 2015; Hardy & Maguire, 2007). The 
recent observation and studies have found the continuing importance of political 

 
 
ties and unnecessary decline of governmental influences (Puffer and McCarthy, 
2011). Contrary to the previous viewpoint on the relations to government as a cost 
for or an institutional constraint on firms (Pfeffer & Salancik, 1978), managing 
political calculations during institutional transition, especially in emerging 
economies, is being recognized as an important dynamic capability (Li et al., 2013). 
With the changing ontology from “either/or assertions” (either “governments are 
in decline” or “not” while markets are clearly on the rise) to “both/and reasoning”, 
scholars are reviewing the twin forces of the paradoxical relation of government 
and market, embracing the market–political ambidexterity as important dual 
capabilities to seek long-term success of business (Li et al., 2013). Based on the 
metaphor of organizational ambidexterity, market–political ambidexterity refers 
to “the firm's dynamic capabilities to manage influences from both the markets 
and governments simultaneously” (Li et al., 2013. p. 2). 
Li & Liang’s study (2015) illustrates the importance of cultural-dependent values 
that underline successful private-firm entrepreneurs’ pro-social motives: with the 
mind of creating blended values, i.e., both economic value and social value, the 
pursuit of political appointments is regarded as a means by those entrepreneurs 
to influence policymaking and contribute to the greater good. This greatly extends 
the literature on understanding corporate political activity in the non-Western 
context, despite extant studies narrowly regarded entrepreneurs in the context of 
institutional transition as morally insensitive monsters, just utilizing their political 
engagement to bypass institutions to gain more economic interests and triggering 
harmful results and risks (Lawton et al., 2013; Mantere et al. 2009; Welter & 
Smallbone, 2011). More recently, studies reveal that in an immature institutional 
environment of emerging economies, firms can adapt to institutional change and 
even develop considerable power to influence it (Dieleman & Boddewyn 2012). 
Managing political calculations during institutional transition, especially in 
emerging economies, is being recognized as an important capability of firms (Li et 
al., 2013). 
In the process of institutional transition, more and more entrepreneurs have 
realized that their reliance on seeking speculative opportunities for maximum 
short-term profits in institutional voids could not sustain their business. The nuts 
and bolts of entrepreneurial opportunities in a transition economy context is the 
balance between exploiting business opportunities and creating social values, 
switching and balancing between different institutional logics, i.e., market logic 
and government logic. Insightful entrepreneurs could explore opportunities to fill 
in the institutional void in a market-oriented way, and seek political avenues and 

 
 
create more opportunities to make their businesses sustainable. On the one hand, 
entrepreneurs, especially those with political engagement, are pulled to 
participate in institutional building to gain legitimacy for their business. On the 
other hand, they are pushed to respond quickly to institutional change by seizing 
market opportunities. Therefore, it is important for entrepreneurs to develop skills 
of ambidexterity to pursue both commercial and social values. 
The lens of political engagement of entrepreneurs in a transition economy thus 
could help improve our understanding of how entrepreneurs could be “a 
significant conduit for a more sustainable society” through pursuing both ‘pro-self’ 
and ‘pro-social’ objectives with their market-political ambidexterity. 
Methods and Data 
A recent trend of management studies is the transition towards process-based 
research (Jarzabkowski & Spee, 2009). As Ployhart & Vandenberg (2010) pointed 
out insightfully, scholars should pay more emphasis on exploring longitudinal 
study to better understanding many organizational phenomena with change both 
within a level over time and across level over time. Many scholars have 
emphasized that the study of sustainable entrepreneurship demands a rich, 
detailed interpretive analysis of the particular context where it occurs (Berglund 
et al., 2015). To understand the dynamics of sustainable entrepreneurship, recent 
studies have suggested to apply process-tracing methodology to check how events 
are logically connected (Pablo Muñoz & Boyd Cohen, 2018). The recent calls for 
in-depth qualitative research on the role of entrepreneurship in organization, 
community and society (Suddaby et al, 2015) give us confidence to utilize the 
method of historical case study with event driven explanation focusing on 
individual corporate histories (Van de Ven, 2007). It is acknowledged that 
historical case studies provide the opportunity to uncover the story behind the 
institutional evolution of many phenomena (Nasra & Dacin, 2010). We track the 
historical development and use historical event sequencing method to investigate 
the process of sustainable entrepreneurship, with a focus on the dynamic 
interactions of the market and political activities of the company and the 
entrepreneur. 
 
 

 
 
The Case Study of T Group: Sustainable Entrepreneurship 
and Poverty Alleviation 
Generally, the focus on the solar PV industry stems from three aspects. First, the 
solar PV industry has been one of the most dynamic industrial branches in recent 
decades in China. Second, in the rapid development and fluctuation of the solar 
PV industry, entrepreneurs in this field witnessed intensive interactions with 
policy makers (central and local government). Third, the solar panels and solar 
energy in China are mainly installed and developed in the western inland regions 
where there were still more than 16 million of people living in poverty in 2017. 
Thus, the solar PV industry is a good example to demonstrate how political 
engagement by entrepreneurs for business opportunity creation can help mitigate 
and eradicate poverty in western China.  
In the past decade, the solar PV industry in China grew rapidly. Along with ups and 
downs within a short period of time, numerous entrepreneurs entered this field. 
Some of them had strong Confucian values, and thus great concerns for the public 
good and the contribution to greater commonwealth through doing good 
business. They participated in establishing and improving important institutions 
for this industry, pursued political appointments to fulfill their values towards 
business and society, and sustained their businesses to help societal development 
and to promote public welfare. Thus, the solar PV industry is a suitable research 
subject in terms of the behaviours and activities of entrepreneurs and their impact 
on sustainable development.  
In October 2014, the National Energy Administration (NEA) and the State Council 
Leading Group Office of Poverty Alleviation and Development (CPAD) collectively 
issued a guiding policy to launch a poverty alleviation program through the 
installation of solar PV panels in poor households. The program was designed to 
run for a period of six years starting from 2014/2015. In 2015, the PV Poverty 
Alleviation Project was approved by the State Council as one of the ten targeted 
poverty alleviation projects.  
Through installing rooftop or micro solar energy systems in the poorest villages 
and counties across China, this program aimed to help the local residents generate 
electric power for their own use and to make money by selling surplus electric 
power back to the grid. The scheme was designed to help two million households 
generate over 3,000 RMB yuan each as extra income every year. In January 2016, 
NEA issued another policy on promoting renewable energy development to 

 
 
support poverty alleviation. Through the first six months of 2018, at least 48 
policies were released by either the central or local governments in China to 
further promote the PV approach to poverty alleviation. 
In fact, the PV poverty alleviation model was invented and applied by those 
entrepreneurs in the solar PV industry who deeply understood the importance of 
maintaining ambidexterity in balancing their economic growth and social value 
creation. When the first solar PV poverty alleviation model was created and 
recognized by the government, it was soon adopted and replicated by many other 
entrepreneurs in this field, such as PV plus vegetable greenhouse model, PV plus 
sheep-pen model, and others. The practice has been developed into an effective 
policy tool in China which integrates the social goals of climate change response, 
low-carbon development and poverty alleviation to promote sustainable 
development of inland rural regions. According to a rough estimation, these PV 
poverty alleviation projects could help reduce the nationwide emission of carbon 
dioxide between 8.4 to 42.0 million tons per year (NEA, 2016). That creates huge 
ecological and environmental benefits. 
With the strong support of government policy and innovative exploitation of 
entrepreneurial opportunities, companies in the solar PV industry in China could 
make great contributions to the implementation and achievements of SDGs in 
many areas, such as in poverty alleviation (SDG #1), affordable and clean energy 
(SDG #7), and sustainable cities and communities (SDG #11). 
Starting on and focusing its core business on aquiculture before 2006, T Group --- 
a leading private enterprise in the area of feed and aquatic products established 
in 1984 in Sichuan Province, Western China ---has grown to be the world’s largest 
aquatic feed manufacturer as well as major livestock and poultry feed producer. 
In 2007, T Group entered the solar PV industry firstly in the upstream producing 
polyvinyl chloride (PVC), as raw materials for the production of polycrystalline 
silicon with huge investments. In February 2007, he acquired a chemical factor 
producing PVC. From then on, T Group marches into solar energy industry, forming 
the dual core business structure. In the words of Mr. Liu, T Group is a company 
devoted to provide green energy for society, with aquatic feed as the energy to 
satisfy the demand for food safety of human being, with solar energy as the energy 
to satisfy the demand for energy safety of human being. Actually, at the first 
beginning of getting involved in PVC business, Mr. Liu had planned to construct a 
comprehensive value chain on the PV power industry. It is hard to say how much 
he knew chemical industry, but his political connections to CPPCC and CDNCA 

 
 
could broaden his perspectives and bring valuable information benefiting for his 
business. 
In February 2007, T Group decided to invest in Polycrystalline silicon field making 
preparations and planning for solar energy industry. Before the coming of financial 
crisis in September 2008, the first stage of polycrystalline silicon project with 1,000 
tons production capability was successfully finished and put into operation, 
created an astonishing speed from feasibility research to highest standard 
products. It marked breaking of a new path of T Group and the realization of the 
Chairman of T Group, Mr. Liu’s ambitious dream to explore green gold from new 
energy industry. Although in the following years the external environment of solar 
industry suffered serious slump, T Group has been keeping cautious expansion of 
its solar energy business from southwest to northwest and northeast in many 
counties in China. In 2009, even in the winter of solar energy industry, T Group still 
generated net profit of 2.19 million RMB, while many other competitors have been 
closed. In 2010, T Group increased investment further in its polycrystalline silicon 
project with 3,000 tons production capability. This laid a good foundation to 
further reduce the production cost of T Group’s polycrystalline silicon. In 2013, T 
Group acquired a large solar cell maker at the edge of bankruptcy and made huge 
investment to operate its new production base of Polycrystalline silicon. Although 
T Group is not the pioneer in PV industry in China, yet, with Mr. Liu’s firm 
commitment and determination into this field and his positive political activities 
to call for favorable industrial policy for PV industry, T Group has developed quickly 
into one of the largest PV producer and operator of PV power station in China, 
with a very comprehensive industrial chain in the solar PV industry. With its own 
developed techniques and over 100 technical patents on producing polycrystalline 
silicon, T Group is dominating an important position in Chinese market as one of 
the largest solar cells producer.  
In the process of developing its solar business, due to the positive political 
engagement and activities of Mr. Liu, including his consistent positive submission 
of policy proposals and research reports to related central government bodies, T 
Group has become a company with great impact in the solar industry in China. 
 
 

 
 
Table 1 below illustrates the rapid development of T Group in the solar PV 
business. 
**************************** 
Insert Table 1 about here 
**************************** 
During T Group’s successful growth and development, Mr. Liu, the founder and 
the Board Chairman of T Group, also realized his political achievements with a 
great success. Since 1994, Mr. Liu has being a positive member of China 
Democratic National Construction Association (CDNCA), and later was elected as 
a member of the Central Standing Committee of CDNCA as well as a member of 
the Standing Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference 
(CPPCC), let along other numerous received honors, awards and high 
appreciations from different levels of government and other social organizations 
and entities.  
Table 2 and 3 show the main political appointments and honorary titles and 
awards of Mr. Liu.  
**************************** 
Insert Table 2 about here 
**************************** 
**************************** 
Insert Table 3 about here 
**************************** 
As indicated in this case, the ambitious and successful development of T Group on 
exploring sustainable business opportunities in solar energy industry is deeply 
rooted in the market-political ambidexterity of Mr. Liu. As a successful private-firm 
entrepreneur, his individual ideation of compassion and value of creating larger 
good for public enable him get access into positive political engagement, which 

 
 
help him ‘sense, shape and seize’ opportunities on developing sustainable 
business and reinforce his commitment on developing solar PV industry. Though 
leveraging dynamically his capability of political engagement, T Group could 
develop successfully innovative business model of PV poverty alleviation model 
which satisfied both government logic for poverty eradication and market logic for 
business value.  
Far-sighted entrepreneurs seek to balance their business success and positive 
societal impact to make sure to get the sustained legitimacy and support from 
government. In T Group’s development, Mr. Liu cautiously explored and exploited 
the business opportunities in the solar PV industry. The donated project of solar 
PV station in west inland of Sichuan province shows the sophisticated market-
political ambidexterity of Mr. Liu. On the one hand, that is a small step to explore 
the solar PV business in western region of China; on the other hand, that 
philanthropic donation through his membership of CDNCA improved the 
legitimacy of his political proposals for developing solar PV industry in a favourable 
institutional environment. T Group’s successful and innovative business model of 
combining aquatic fishing and solar PV station supports further Mr. Liu’s 
engagement in institutional work, directly or indirectly participating in creating 
favourable industrial policy for solar PV business. In turn, the institutional work 
could strengthen and reinforce the business opportunities for T Group’s 
exploitation in solar PV industry. For example, the newly issued policy from NRDC 
on encouraging developing distributed solar PV stations highly recognized and 
recommended the “aquatic fishing plus solar PV” model of T Group. With Mr. Liu’s 
further elaborations on the benefits of this model on poverty reduction, NRDC 
released another policy to support the adoption of the “aquatic fishing plus solar 
PV” model as an effective policy tool to eradicate poverty.  
**************************** 
Insert Figure 1 about here 
**************************** 
In the T Group’s development, Mr. Liu cautiously explored and exploited the 
business opportunities in the solar PV industry. Along with his political 
appointments, Mr. Liu could also submit policy proposals and suggestions to 
CPPCC and other central government bodies, and thus get feedback and confirm 
whether his judgment on investing in the new energy field is a correct strategic 

 
 
decision. The following two statements from both an external government official 
and an internal senior manager of the T Group show the active political 
engagement and produced influence of Mr. Liu. 
“This proposal [Suggestions to Accelerating Poverty Eradication through 
Developing Solar PV Industry] has critical points on poverty eradication through 
solar PV. The proposal, with its great successful practices by the T Group, gives us 
many feasible and valuable suggestions. NEA will push to implement the suggested 
actions to promote the model of poverty eradication with solar PV” (a senior 
official in the National Energy Administration). 
“Mr. Liu keeps active political engagement due to his responsibility as Standing 
Member of the Central Committee of CNDCA, Member of Standing Committee of 
the CPPCC National Committee, as well as the recent appointment of 
Representative of China People’s Congress. Many of his political suggestions and 
proposals stemmed from his considerations for the public interests and the entire 
solar PV industry. As an influential opinion leader - from a major company in solar 
PV industry, Mr. Liu is expected to bring in voices of other companies in this 
industry to policy makers. He believes that without a healthy industrial 
environment there would be no growth for The T Group. This helps to develop a 
long-term commitment of our company to solar PV business development and 
social and environmental value creation.” (A senior manager of the T Group).  
As indicated in this case, it should be kept in mind that business model for 
sustainability could be rooted to a great extent in the close interlinkage and 
interactions between entrepreneur’s individual personal political engagement and 
market activities which simultaneously seek social values and business values for 
creating larger legitimacy and business opportunities.  
Based on the unique business model innovation of the case company, this paper 
is expected to illustrate the sustainable entrepreneurship process through 
bridging the individual entrepreneur’s value at micro level and the institutional 
change at macro level. Considering the few published articles on exploring the 
development of sustainable entrepreneurship in institutional immature context, 
this paper might offer new perspectives to understand the strategic innovation of 
entrepreneurs on solving SDGs and have dialogue with the recent study of 
Schaltegger et al. (2018). 
 
 

 
 
Discussion 
Our study has a number of important implications for theory and research on 
sustainable entrepreneurship and business model innovation. This paper 
illustrates the value of dynamic market-political ambidexterity on our 
understanding of sustainable entrepreneurship and business model innovation.  
Our analysis identifies the valuable capability of market-political ambidexterity of 
sustainable entrepreneurship in the context of institutional transitions. 
Sustainable entrepreneurship pursues sustainable development out of 
considerations both from exploring new business opportunities for economic 
value creation and seeking long-term legitimacy for social and environmental 
value creation. In the self-reinforcing and interdependent process of developing 
capability on influencing market competition and leveraging capability on 
influencing government legislations, sustainable entrepreneurship aligns pursuit 
of external monetary returns and intrinsic self-actualization, to gain both market 
success and political legitimacy. Market success from exploring new business 
opportunities relies on sustainable entrepreneur’s political engagement for 
favourable industry and institutional environment such as favourable industry 
policy; while the market success in new business area could further reinforce the 
political legitimacy of the entrepreneur and his political engagement. Although it 
is widely believed that institutions in transition economies are imperfect and 
immature, the flexibility and resilience of institutions in transition economies 
enable the quick adjustment and development of new industries in which private-
firm entrepreneurs and government departments are closely intertwined. The 
latest successful solar PV industry development in China is a good example to show 
the efforts of those entrepreneurs with sophisticated dynamic capability of 
market-political ambidexterity in institutional transitions. Therefore, this study 
implies to further develop comparative studies to understand the value enhancing 
of dynamic market–political ambidexterity on promoting the transition of 
sustainable entrepreneurship in different institutional contexts. In complex 
institutional context with both for-profit and nonprofit institutional logics, the 
dynamic market-political ambidexterity capability of sustainable entrepreneurship 
could perfectly explore innovative business models aiming at upscaling both 
economically and socially as well as environmentally beneficial models. The 
introduction of this political engagement perspective could help deepen further 
understanding on the dynamics between sustainable entrepreneurship and 
business model innovation. 

 
 
Limitation and future research 
In spite of the recognition of the value of inductive qualitative research to 
generate new insights and to build new theory, the single case in this paper still 
lacks enough power to generalize the conclusion from this study. In terms of the 
triangulation of data, this paper still needs to collect especially first-hand data to 
further track the case entrepreneur’s personal values concerning sustainability 
and political engagement. Thus, it could deepen our understanding on the 
evolutionary pathways of sustainable entrepreneurship in complex institutional 
context. 
Our paper suggests several lines of future inquiry. First, it is necessary and valuable 
to extend the study of sustainable entrepreneurship in solar energy industry at 
broader scope, to include multiple cases to examine how sustainable 
entrepreneurs in same institutional context could develop various approaches for 
value creation and innovate business models for sustainability. Second, future 
studies could investigate from comparative case study how entrepreneurs 
devoted to sustainable development engage in corporate political activities in 
different cultural and institutional contexts. Research in this direction could 
reversely inform us the impact of entrepreneur’s activism on business model 
innovation for sustainability. Third, it is important to further explore the micro-
foundations of sustainable entrepreneurship. The emotional and ideological 
aspects of sustainable entrepreneurs should be further explored to deepen our 
understanding on the processes of political engagement and societal 
consequences of sustainable entrepreneurship. 
References 
Belz 
F.M. 
(2013). 
Shaping 
the 
future: 
sustainable 
innovation 
and 
entrepreneurship. Social Business. 3(4), 311-324. 
Belz, F.M., and Binder, J.K. (2017). Sustainable Entrepreneurship: A Convergent 
Process Model. Business Strategy and the Environment. 26(1), 1-17. 
Child, J., Rodrigues, S. B. and Tse, K. K.T. (2012). The Dynamics of Influence in 
Corporate Co-Evolution. Journal of Management Studies. 49(7), 1246–1273. 
Dean, T., McMullen, J., (2007). Toward a theory of sustainable entrepreneurship: 
reducing environmental degradation through entrepreneurial action. 
Journal of Business Venturing. 22 (1), 50–76. 
Dieleman, D., Boddewyn, J.J. (2012).Using Organization Structure to Buffer 
Political Ties in Emerging Markets: A Case Study. Organization Studies. 33(1), 
71-95. 

 
 
Hardy, C., Maguire, S. (2007). Institutional entrepreneurship. In: Greenwood, C., 
Oliver, C., Sahlin-Andersson, K., Suddaby, R. (eds.), Handbook of 
Organizational Institutionalism. Sage Publications, Thousand Oaks, CA, pp. 
198–217. 
Jarzabkowski, P. & A. P. Spee. 2009. Strategy as practice: A review and future 
directions for the field. International Journal of Management Reviews, 11(1), 
69-95. 
Lawton, T., McGuire, S. and Rajwani, T. (2013). Corporate Political Activity: A 
Literature Review and Research Agenda. International Journal of 
Management Reviews. 15(1), 86–105. 
Li, X.H., and Liang, X.Y. (2015). A Confucian Social Model of Political Appointments 
among Chinese Private-Firm Entrepreneurs. Academy of Management 
Journal. 58(2), 592-617.  
Li, Y; Peng, M.W; and Macaulay, C. D. (2013). Market–political ambidexterity 
during institutional transitions. Strategic Organization. 11(2),205-213.  
Mantere, S. Pajunen, K., and Lamberg, J.A. (2009). Vices and Virtues of Corporate 
Political Activity: The Challenge of International Business. Business & Society. 
48(1), 105-132. 
McWilliams, A., Van Fleet, D. D. and Cory, K. (2002). Raising rivals’ costs through 
political strategy: an extension of the resource-based theory. Journal of 
Management Studies. 39(5),707–723. 
Muñoz, P.; Cohen, B. (2018). Sustainable Entrepreneurship Research: Taking Stock 
and Looking Ahead. Business Strategy and the Environment. 27(3), 300-322. 
Nasra, R., and Dacin, M. T. (2010). Institutional arrangements and international 
entrepreneurship: 
The 
state 
as 
institutional 
entrepreneur. 
Entrepreneurship: Theory & Practice. 34(3), 583-609. 
Ogbor, J. O. (2002). Mythicizing and Reification in Entrepreneurial Discourse: 
Ideology‐Critique of Entrepreneurial Studies. Journal of Management 
Studies. 37(5),605-636. 
Pacheco, D.F., Dean, T.J., and Payne, D.S. (2010). Escaping the green prison: 
Entrepreneurship and the creation of opportunities for sustainable 
development. Journal of Business Venturing. 25 (5), 464-480. 
Pacheco, D.F., Dean, T.J., Payne, D.S. (2010). Escaping the green prison: 
Entrepreneurship and the creation of opportunities for sustainable 
development. Journal of Business Venturing. 25 (5), 464–480. 
Pfeffer, J., G. R. Salancik. (1978). The External Control of Organizations: A Resource 
Dependence Perspective. New York, NY, Harper and Row. 
Pinkse, J., and Groot, K. (2015). Sustainable entrepreneurship and corporate 
political activity: Overcoming market barriers in the clean energy sector. 
Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice. 39(3), 633–654. 

 
 
Ployhart, R.E., Vandenberg, R.J. (2010). Longitudinal Research: The Theory, Design, 
and Analysis of Change. Journal of Management. 36(1), 94-120. 
Puffer, S. M., McCarthy, D. J. and Boisot, M. 2010. Entrepreneurship in Russia and 
China: The Impact of Formal Institutional Voids. Entrepreneurship Theory 
and Practice. 34(3), 441–467. 
Reinstaller, A. (2005). Policy entrepreneurship in the co-evolution of institutions, 
preferences, and technology: Comparing the diffusion of totally chlorine free 
pulp bleaching technologies in the US and Sweden. Research Policy. 34(9), 
1366–1384. 
Schaltegger, S. and Wagner, M. (2011). Sustainable entrepreneurship and 
sustainability innovation: categories and interactions. Business Strategy and 
Environment. 20(4), 222–237. 
Schaltegger, S., Beckmann, M. and Hockerts, K. (2018). Collaborative 
entrepreneurship for sustainability. Creating solutions in light of the UN 
sustainable development goals. International Journal of Entrepreneurial 
Venturing. 10(2),131-152. 
Suddaby, R., Bruton, G.D., Si, S.X. (2015). Entrepreneurship through a qualitative 
lens: Insights on the construction and/or discovery of entrepreneurial 
opportunity. Journal of Business Venturing. 30(1), 1-10. 
Thornton, P.H. (2002). The rise of the corporation in a craft industry: conflict and 
conformity in institutional logics. Academy of Management Journal. 45(1), 
81-101. 
Welter, F., and Smallbone, D. (2011). Institutional perspectives on entrepreneurial 
behavior in challenging environments. Journal of Small Business. 49(1), 107-
125. 
York, J.G., and Venkataraman, S. (2010). The entrepreneur–environment nexus: 
Uncertainty, innovation, and allocation. Journal of Business Venturing. 25(5), 
449–463. 
 
 
 

 
 
Table 1: The quick development of T Group in developing solar PV business 
Year 
Main activities in developing solar PV business 
2006 
Aimed at entering solar PV industry cautiously.  
2007 
• Invested a chemical factory to produce PVC with a production 
capacity of 5,000 tons per year. PVC is the material for producing 
Polycrystalline silicon. This marks the milestone of T Group 
making decision to enter into solar PV industry. 
• Donated 50 million RMB to construct 6 PV power stations in 
remote western rural areas with a total installed capacity of 
1.355 MWp. 
• Increased investment to expand the production capacity of 
Polycrystalline silicon to 9,000 ton per year 
2008 
• Showed in the 2008 Asian Solar PV Exhibition; 
• Realized quick returns of investment in producing Polycrystalline 
silicon 
2010 
• increased investment further in its polycrystalline silicon project 
with 3,000 tons production capability 
2011 
• Made investment expansion in Chengdu; 
• Increased investment for Polycrystalline silicon production base 
in Jianwei county, with 46.2 billion RMB; 
• Reached strategic cooperation agreement with Xinjiang 
autonomous region government to develop 50,000 tons of 
polycrystalline silicon and 3GW silicon slices, with a total 
investment of 26 billion RMB. 
2012 
• Approved by Sichuan Provincial Government to set up the 
demonstration project of 30MW solar PV grid connection in 
Yanyuan County with a total installed capacity of 100MW 
2013 
• Acquired the original PV producer LDK and expanded further 
investment of PV business in producing PV slice. 
2014 
• Decided to extend the industrial chain to the construction and 
operation of decentralized PV power station. 
• Ranked as one of the largest PV slide producer in China. 
2015 
• Large investment on 5GW silicon cells in Chengdu, China  
 

 
 
Table 2: Mr. Liu’s political appointments 
Year 
Political appointments 
1994 
member of China Democratic National Construction Association 
(CDNCA) 
1998 
• Member of Standing Committee of Sichuan CPPCC Committee 
• Member of the CPPCC National Committee 
• Member of Entrepreneurs Committee of CDNCA 
2002 
Standing member of the Central Committee of CNDCA 
2008 
Member of Standing Committee of the CPPCC National Committee 
2018 
Member of National People’s Congress 
 
Table 3: Mr. Liu’s honour titles awarded from government, industry and society 
Year 
Honorary titles and awards 
2009 
• Member of New Energy Chamber of Commerce under the 
umbrella of All China Federation of Industry and Commerce 
• Awarded as “Responsible Leadership” of the 1st China 
Corporate Social Responsibility Summit 
2011 
• Standing deputy director of New Energy Chamber of 
Commerce 
• Awarded as “Global New Energy Business Leadership” 
2012 
• Recognized as “the No.1 Figure in Solar PV Industry” by 
National Energy Administration 
• Awarded 
as 
“The 
Most 
Civil 
Responsible 
Chinese 
Entrepreneur” 
• Awarded as “2012 the Most Social Responsible Chinese 
Entrepreneur” 
2013 
• Awarded as “HuaRun 100 Riches List of the Most Respected 
Entrepreneur” 
• Awarded as “2013 Caijing Figure with Impact” 

 
 
• Awarded as “Global New Energy the Figure of the Year”  
2014 
• Awarded as “Global New Energy Business Leader” 
 
 
Figure 1: The Market-Political Ambidexterity of Sustainable Entrepreneurship 
 
 

 
 
Redesigning the Entrepreneurial 
Process of Sustainable Startups 
 
Jennifer van Der Meer1,, Raz Godelnik2 
 
1,2Parsons School of Design - The New School 
*vandermj@newschool.edu 
 
Extended abstract 
While we have seen a growing interest in sustainable entrepreneurship (SE), it has 
remained a complex task that only a relatively small number of entrepreneurs are 
willing to take on themselves. This should come as no surprise given the need to 
consider multiple types of value created (and destroyed) for different stakeholders 
(Bocken, Rana and Short, 2015), while operating in an economic system that is still 
dominated by “business as usual” considerations. These challenges come on the 
top of the typical trials that are part of every entrepreneurial effort, making “the 
realization of sustainability innovations aimed at the mass market and providing 
benefit to the larger part of society” (Schaltegger and Wagner, 2011, p. 225) very 
difficult. 
A growing number of sustainable business model (SBM) tools and frameworks that 
have emerged in the last couple of years have not succeeded to provide early-
stage entrepreneurs interested in creating sustainable value with sufficient 
support. As a result, we see that even this subset of entrepreneurs still prefers 
common lean startup tools and methods, which provide them with a clearer 
roadmap to reach their desired destination: creating a successful enterprise. In a 
book chapter published earlier this year (Godelnik and van der Meer, 2019) we 
addressed the adaptability gap between SBM and lean startup approaches, 
offering a new framework, Lean SBM, which combines a strong SBM context with 
a clear and effective lean startup content.  
The Lean SBM framework’s initial structure followed Ries’ (2011) vision-strategy-
product formulation of the entrepreneurial journey (see Figure 1). It aims to 
provide entrepreneurs with a clear workflow, starting with articulation of their 

 
 
values, destination, and the ecosystem in which they operate, followed by strategy 
formation that is focusing on a search for a workable business model, and then 
the product, which is what the entrepreneurs end up building. 
Figure 1. Initial Lean SBM framework 
 
While we already see initial examples that provide an indication of the possibilities 
for this framework, such as platform co-ops, B-Corps, Zebra movement, and 
Nordic startups (Godelnik and van der Meer, 2019) this was only a starting point. 
The work we have been doing since the completion of the book chapter both 
inside and outside the university made us realize there is a need to keep updating 
and clarifying the framework. Therefore, in this paper we offer a new iteration of 
our framework, in which we focus on the flow between the vision and the strategy. 
Within these two parts, we present four key elements helping articulate the 
entrepreneur’s vision and how this vision can be realized: Opportunity 
recognition, ecosystem forces, theory of change and business model articulation 
(see Figure 2).  
 
 

 
 
Figure 2. Redesigning the entrepreneurial journey from vision to product 
 
 
 
 
 
Acknowledging the entrepreneurial journey is “a complex process, involving and 
interweaving a multitude of elements” (Dimov, 2018, p. 16), we assume the 
progression from one element to another is dynamic and iterative rather than a 
static, linear process. The elements utilize both SBM and lean tools, reflecting the 
Lean SBM framework’s emphasis on integrating the practicality of the lean 
approach with the necessary SBM considerations. 
Opportunity recognition: Identifying an opportunity to create value is considered 
an initial part of the entrepreneurial process (Rosen, 2014), including when it 
comes to sustainable entrepreneurship (Belz and Binder, 2017). The 
entrepreneurs begin by articulating the unproven assumptions they have about 
the opportunity as suggested by the lean method (Blank, 2013). We propose to do 
so using the Value Proposition Canvas (Osterwalder et al., 2014) in order to better 
articulate the value that is envisioned to be created and who may benefit from it.  
Ecosystem forces: Entrepreneurs need to understand what forces shape the 
system they want to change, reflecting a growing understanding of the systemic 

 
 
nature of the innovation process (Edquist, 2006), as well as the value of identifying 
early in the process important forces that impact how the system works (Omidyar 
Group, 2017). Founders identify who they are, and whom they know, uncovering 
strategy through the process of effectuation thinking and action (Sarasvathy, 
2008) to identify or create ecosystem value linkages for which stakeholders may 
not yet be aware.  
 Theory of change: This stage focuses on explaining the process of a change in a 
system, by defining the causal links between a specific intervention, short-term 
outcomes, and long term impact. In the context of social impact venture 
investing, theory of change requires evaluators to surface implicit theory of action 
(Chen, 1990), and to define indicators of change by which evaluators will measure 
progress in short, medium, and long term ranges.   
Business model articulation: At this stage the entrepreneurs explore the potential 
range of sustainable business models best suited for powering the value 
proposition, connecting to the theory of change, and the ecosystem in which they 
operate. Typically, this process relies on a canvas-based approach, such as the 
Business Model Canvas (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010) to generate shared 
language and alignment. While we will build on these accepted existing tools, we 
also deliberately introduce the Sustainable Business Model Pattern Taxonomy 
(Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2018) to provide a wide range of business model pattern 
choices, together with a broader SBM contextualization. 
We chose two different environments in order to examine the utility and the 
usability of the updated Lean SBM framework - a social venture lab university 
course at The New School in the Spring 2019 semester and a social impact 
accelerator in Israel. These two settings were chosen because they both focus on 
supporting the development of mission-driven startups, but at the same time are 
grounded in different environments and cultures. In the university course, which 
is taught by one of the authors students work in teams to develop a social venture 
with an emphasis on critical skills and knowledge needed for it. The Israeli 
accelerator works with early-stage startups focusing on solving social problems 
through technological means.  
We plan to work with a total of 10 teams in both places to evaluate the 
effectiveness of current iteration of the Lean Startups framework. It is our 
intention to investigate the framework as a whole, as well as each of its 
components separately. In both cases we introduce the teams to the different 

 
 
components of the framework to learn about their usefulness. Our assumption in 
general is that more assimilation with our framework will enable the startup teams 
to realize their vision with greater success. To test our hypothesis we plan to 
continue following the teams’ work for 18 months they graduate from the 
course/accelerator.  
The Lean SBM framework aims to offer a practice-based approach for 
entrepreneurs interested in creating sustainable value and impact, focusing on 
making the entrepreneurial process clearer and less challenging for them. The 
contribution of this paper is in its development and testing of the new iteration of 
the Lean SBM framework, combining in a novel way SBM and lean design tools, 
including the new SBM taxonomy. The examination of the framework in different 
contexts will help understand if the framework is indeed effective in creating 
useful scaffolds to support sustainability-oriented startups’ daily reality of choice-
making and experimentation in an uncertain environment.   
Keywords: 
Entrepreneurship, Lean SBM, sustainable business models, entrepreneurial 
process, SBM taxonomy 
References: 
Belz, F. M. and Binder, J. K. (2017) ‘Sustainable Entrepreneurship: A Convergent 
Process Model’, Business Strategy and the Environment. John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd, 26(1), pp. 1–17. 
Blank, S. (2013) ‘Why the Lean Start-Up Changes Everything’, Harvard Business 
Review, 91(5), pp. 63–72. 
Bocken, N., Rana, P. and Short, S. W. (2015) ‘Value mapping for sustainable 
business thinking’, Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering, 32(1), 
pp. 67–81. 
Chen, H. (1990) Theory-driven evaluations. Sage Publications. 
Dimov, D. (2018) ‘Entrepreneurial process: Mapping a multiplicity of 
conversations’, in Gartner, W. and Eague, B. (eds) Research Handbook of 
Entrepreneurial Behavior, Practice, and Process. Edward Elgar. 
Edquist, C. (2006) ‘Systems of Innovation: Perspectives and Challenges’. 
Fetterman, D. M. et al. (2017) Collaborative, Participatory, and Empowerment 
Evaluation : Stakeholder Involvement Approaches. Guilford Publications. 

 
 
Godelnik, R. and van der Meer, J. (2019) ‘Sustainable Business Models in an 
Entrepreneurial Environment’, in Aagaard, A. (ed.) Sustainable Business 
Models: Innovation, Implementation and Success. Cham: Springer 
International Publishing, pp. 239–276. 
Jonker, J. (2014) ‘Changing the logic of value creation/changer la logique de 
création de valeur’. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. et al. (2018) ‘The sustainable business model pattern 
taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model 
innovation’, Sustainable Production and Consumption. Elsevier, 15, pp. 145–
162. 
Omidyar Group (2017) Systems Practice. Washington, DC. Available at: 
https://docs.kumu.io/content/Workbook-012617.pdf. 
Osterwalder, A. et al. (2014) Value proposition design : how to create products and 
services customers want. 
Osterwalder, A. and Pigneur, Y. (2010) Business Model Generation: A Handbook 
for Visionaries, Game Changers, and Challengers. OSF. 
Ries, E. (2011) The lean startup : how today’s entrepreneurs use continuous 
innovation to create radically successful businesses. 
Rosen, A. (2014) Recognizing Opportunity is the First Step to an Entrepreneurial 
Mindset, Entrepreneur. Available at: http://bit.ly/2WoJLiB. 
Sarasvathy, S. (2008) New horizons in entrepreneurship. Effectuation: Elements of 
entrepreneurial expertise. Northampton, MA, US: Edward Elgar Publishing. 
Schaltegger, S. and Wagner, M. (2011) ‘Sustainable entrepreneurship and 
sustainability innovation: categories and interactions’, Business Strategy and 
the Environment. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., 20(4), pp. 222–237. 
 
 

 
 
Reinventing value by integrating 
stakeholders: exploring business 
ecosystems for sustainable business 
model innovation 
 
Markus Raatikainen 1*, Maya Hoveskog 2, Fawzi Halila 2, and Emma 
Incze 1 
1 UEF Business School, University of Eastern Finland, Microkatu 1 
Kuopio, Finland; 2 School of Business, Engineering and Science, 
Halmstad University, Kristian IV:s väg 3, 301 18 Halmstad, Sweden 
*markus.raatikainen@uef.fi 
 
Introduction 
New business models are needed to contribute to a more sustainable future. In 
many cases new business models are developed by entrepreneurial firms. 
Business model innovation (BMI) refers to a new integrated logic of how the firm 
creates value for its customers or users and how it captures value as well as the 
implementation of a business model that is new to the firm (Björkdahl and 
Holmén, 2013; Yang et al., 2017). The focus on business model innovation is in 
changing how to do business (rather than what to do), and it goes further than 
purely innovations in technology, product and process (Amit and Zott, 2012). The 
business model concept is in close connection with the concept of value. In some 
studies, the value in business models refers to commercial benefits of the focal 
firm such as revenue, reputation and market access and customer benefits such 
as functionality, health, safety, and convenience (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010). 
Some other studies argue that value should not only be offered for customers and 
the firm, but all stakeholders within the value network (Zott et al., 2011). 
Furthermore, Lepak et al. (2007) argues that there are different users of value (e.g. 
individuals, consumers, organizations, government, society) as well as different 
sources of value creation (e.g. society, organizations, individuals). This view is 

 
 
becoming more popular as supply chains become more complex, increasing the 
recognition that more stakeholders are integrated in the value system (Yang et al., 
2017). In particular, sustainable business models require the incorporation of 
sustainable development value logic besides the commercial value logic (Bocken 
et al., 2014; Boons and Lüdeke-Freund, 2013; Schaltegger et al., 2012; Stubbs and 
Cocklin, 2008). The core of a sustainable business is creating and delivering value 
for customers and capturing value for the firm (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010; 
Zott et al., 2011). Developing new business models for sustainability requires an 
integration of social, environmental and/or cultural goals into a more holistic 
meaning of value in business models (Schaltegger et al., 2012). Hence, a 
sustainable business is not only achieved through innovation in technologies, 
products or services, but also through business model innovation (Girotra and 
Netessine, 2013).  
Sustainable business models (SBM) can solve multitude of today’s environmental 
and social challenges. SBM is “a business model that creates competitive 
advantage through superior customer value and contributes to a sustainable 
development of the company and society” (Lüdeke-Freund, 2010, p. 23). SBM 
enables firms to achieve long-term social and environmental sustainability (Boons 
and Lüdeke-Feund 2013). Additionally, firms must be proactive and intentionally 
work towards creating positive societal and environmental value not only for 
themselves but for a wider network of stakeholders (Bocken et al., 2019).  
 
While traditional BMI focuses on shareholders and on firms’ obligations to 
maximize financial profit, SBM takes a stakeholder focus where the firm must 
create value, not simply for the benefit of its shareholders but also for the benefit 
of society and the environment (Schaltegger, 2012). This transition requires radical 
changes and a long-term perspective on business, which recognizes that other 
interests are relevant besides those of the original stakeholders such as customers 
and partners and has a positive effect on society and the environment 
(Geissdoerfer et al., 2016; Joyce and Paquin, 2016). Additionally, it requires new 
thinking on competition, collaboration, ownership (rent, share, lease, own), and 
the role of the various actors (Boons and Lüdeke-Freund, 2013). SBM can 
therefore be used to initiate long-term collaborations between interdependent 
actors who share a systems-level goal. Laszlo et al. (2014) as well as Bocken et al. 
(2019) argue that a successful SBM requires deliberate, collaborative work that 
addresses mutually reinforcing interdependencies among the stakeholders. 
 

 
 
This insight has sparked the academic interest (e.g. Nidumolu et al., 2009; 
Schaltegger et al., 2012; Bocken et al., 2014) in the field of SBM even more, and a 
call for a more comprehensive understanding of the value exchange system and 
approaches to promote sustainable business model innovation creation and 
development has been made (e.g. Bocken et al., 2019; Yang et al., 2017). One 
route towards more sustainable economy can lie in a system built on collaboration 
and sharing (Jackson, 2009), and therefore, previous business model literature has 
encouraged future studies to adopt an ecosystem and value network perspective 
(Zott et al., 2011). For example, Bocken et al. (2019) emphaze that SBM innovation 
requires a multi-stakeholder and value-stream process, where business 
boundaries are challenged, and new value and partnerships are created in a co-
creative manner. Thus, the purpose of this paper is to develop a conceptual model 
on how the business ecosystem, its embedded heterogenous actors influence the 
sustainable business model innovation. In the study, we will explore how value 
gets created in an ecosystem: the ecosystem level linkages (interdependencies 
and complementarities) between activities, and the roles played by the different 
actors in sustainable business model innovation.  
 
The 
current 
research 
has 
not 
in-depth 
addressed 
how 
the 
environmental/social/economic value is created in a community, region, 
ecosystem, and what role different actors play in this. For example, the role of 
local communities, NGOs/private support institutions, governmental agencies, 
political decision-makers and financing institutions. Neumeyer & Santos (2018) 
compared ecosystems of sustainable and conventional businesses and found that 
sustainable 
entrepreneurs 
were 
more 
connected 
than 
conventional 
entrepreneurs. They also found that sustainable entrepreneurs are more strongly 
connected conventional entrepreneurs. In that respect, the following question 
emerges - in what way the ecosystems of sustainable business differ from those 
of conventional businesses? Sustainable ventures find it very challenging to 
acquire funding and financial support of venture capitalists. Investors are reluctant 
to invest in sustainable businesses, to environmentally sustainable business 
models, in particular (De Lange, 2017). Due to limited familiarity of what 
constitutes to a sustainable business model innovation, sustainable firms face 
legitimacy issues with potential investors, customers and other actors. Therefore, 
when it comes to SBM innovation firms need to engage in various approaches of 
collaboration to overcome these issues (Morris et al., 2013; Neumeyer & Santos, 
2018).  
 
On this background, we focus on the business ecosystem(s) for sustainable 
business model innovation. Our view is in line with Sommar (2012) and Bocken et 

 
 
al. (2019) stating that business model research should adopt an extended 
network-perspective including wider set of stakeholders who co-innovate and 
transform the business models. We adopt the definition suggested by Moore 
(1996), and Iansiti & Levien (2004) of business ecosystem as a complex network of 
relationships based on service flows and organizational evolution (i.e. an entire 
ecosystem influencing and interacting with its actors. Moore (1996) emphasizes 
that over time, the actors in the business ecosystem coevolve their capabilities 
and roles and tend to align themselves with the directions set by one or more 
central companies. He emphasizes that over time the leadership roles may change 
depending on the perception of the actors in the ecosystem on how the actors in 
the system are enabled to to move toward shared visions to align their 
investments, and to find mutually supportive roles. For example, previous 
research has shown that multinational companies consider collaborating with 
non-profit nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to help facilitate new modes of 
value creation especially when entering developing markets (Dahan et al, 2010). 
This requires a more inclusive approach when it comes to creation of new or 
redesign of existing SBMs as well as a process of engaging stakeholders (e.g. 
partners, suppliers, customers, NGOs, governmental institutions) in a joint process 
of learning and experimentation (Bocken et al., 2019). The sheer complexity of the 
sustainability-related challenges has pushed firms to the realization that they 
cannot manage those and create the required impact on their own. As Kiron et al. 
(2015) explain the current world of mutual reliance and interdependencies among 
actors from the private and public sector requires collaboration in order to not 
only address sustainability challenges but also help exploring new market 
opportunities and mitigate future risks. Therefore, creating SBM is not entirely 
viable without collaboration that spans and links resources and outcomes across 
multiple boundaries as well as without identification and understanding of the 
interdependencies and interactions between the business models within the 
business ecosystem that the focal firm is undertaking business model innovation 
for sustainability.  
 
Expected results 
In our research we are planning to extend the current research by conceptualizing 
a co-operative model in the SBM innovation of entrepreneurial firms. Further, we 
show how the SBM boundaries extend beyond the focal firm, and how the 
ecosystem and its embedded heterogeneous actors influence on the elements of 
the firms’ SBMs. Drawing upon the extant literature on sustainable business model 
innovations and ecosystem literature we argue that translating environmental and 

 
 
social value into economic profit and achieving competitive advantage require 
collaborative mechanisms together with heterogeneous pool of actors with 
institutional knowledge and access to different levels of society. Our research will 
give a starting point for future research trying to investigate if SBMs co-created by 
integrating stakeholders from the business ecosystem have a better potential to 
create positive social and environmental value.  
 
Keywords 
Sustainable business models; Business ecosystems; Business model innovation, 
Value network; Value co-creation. 
 
References 
Batjargal, B., Hitt, M. A., Tsui, A. S., Arregle, J.-L., Webb, J. W., & Miller, T. L. (2013). 
Institutional polycentrism, entrepreneurs’ social networks, and new venture 
growth. Academy of Management Journal, 56: 1024-1049. 
Björkdahl, J., & Holmén, M. (2013). Business model innovation–the challenges 
ahead. International Journal of Product Development, 18(3/4), 213-225. 
Bocken, N. M., Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner 
production, 65, 42-56. 
Bocken, N., Boons, F., & Baldassarre, B. (2019). Sustainable business model 
experimentation by understanding ecologies of business models. Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 208, 1498-1512. 
Boons, F., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013) Business models for sustainable innovation: 
state-of-the-art and steps towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner 
production, 45, pp. 9-19. 
Dahan, N. M., Doh, J. P., Oetzel, J., & Yaziji, M. (2010). Corporate-NGO 
collaboration: Co-creating new business models for developing markets. 
Long range planning, 43(2-3), 326-342. 
De Lange, D. E. (2017). Start-up sustainability: An insurmountable cost or a life-
giving investment? Journal of cleaner production, 156, 838-854. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Bocken, N. M., Hultink, E. J., 2016. Design thinking to enhance 
the sustainable business modelling process–A workshop based on a value 
mapping process. J. Clean. Prod., 135, 1218-1232. 

 
 
Girotra, K., & Netessine, S. (2013). OM forum—business model innovation for 
sustainability. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management, 15(4), 
537-544. 
Iansiti, M., & Levien, R. (2004). The keystone advantage: what the new dynamics 
of business ecosystems mean for strategy, innovation, and sustainability. 
Harvard Business Press. 
Jackson, T.  (2009) Prosperity without Growth: Economics for a Finite Planet. 
Earthscan 
Kiron, D., Kruschwitz, N., Haanaes, K., Reeves, M., Fuisz-Kehrbach, S. K., & Kell, G. 
(2015). Joining forces: Collaboration and leadership for sustainability. MIT 
Sloan Management Review, 56(3), 1-31. 
Laszlo, C., Ehrenfeld, J., Brown, J., Gorham, M., Pose, I.B., Robson, L., Saillant, R., 
Sherman, D. (2014). Flourishing Enterprise: The New Spirit of Business. 
Stanford University Press, Stanford, CA. 
Lepak, D. P., Smith, K. G., & Taylor, M. S. (2007). Value creation and value capture: 
a multilevel perspective. Academy of management review, 32(1), 180-194. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2010) Towards a conceptual framework of business models for 
sustainability ERSCP-EMU Conference, Delft, The Netherlands pp. 1-28 
Moore, J. F. (1996). The death of competition: leadership and strategy in the age 
of business ecosystems. New York: Harper Business. 
Morris, M. H., Webb, J. W., Fu, J., & Singhal, S. (2013). A competency‐based 
perspective on entrepreneurship education: conceptual and empirical 
insights. Journal of Small Business Management, 51(3), 352-369. 
Neumeyer, X., & Santos, S. C. (2018). Sustainable business models, venture 
typologies, and entrepreneurial ecosystems: A social network perspective. 
Journal of cleaner production, 172, 4565-4579. 
Nidumolu, R., Prahalad, C. K., & Rangaswami, M. R. (2009). Why sustainability is 
now the key driver of innovation. Harvard business review, 87(9), 56-64. 
Osterwalder, A., & Pigneur, Y. (2010). Business model generation: a handbook for 
visionaries, game changers, and challengers. John Wiley & Sons. 
Sommer, A. (2012) Managing Green Business Model Transformations, Springer 
Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg  
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., Hansen, E.G., (2012). Business cases for 
sustainability: the role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability. Int. J. Innov. Sustain. Dev. 6 (2), 95e119. 
Stubbs, W., Cocklin, C., (2008). Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”. 
Organ. Environ. 21 (2), 103e127. 
Teece, D. J. (2010). Business models, business strategy and innovation. Long range 
planning, 43(2-3), 172-194. 

 
 
Yang, M., Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., & Rana, P. (2017). Value uncaptured 
perspective for sustainable business model innovation. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 140, 1794-1804. 
Zott, C., & Amit, R. (2010) Business model design: an activity system perspective 
Long Range Plan., 43 (2/3), pp. 216-226 
 
 
 

 
 
Stimulating entrepreneurs to make 
use of waste streams 
Business model tools for the residue-driven  
business model approach 
 
Marco van Hees1,*, Inge Oskam1 
 
1Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences 
 
* m.l.m.van.hees@hva.nl 
 
Extended abstract  
Introduction 
The transition to a circular economy requires products that are based on circular 
design principles and on business model strategies, which stimulate efficient and 
effective resource use and prevent waste (Bocken et al., 2016; Geissdoerfer et al., 
2017). In practice however, the products and buildings that are currently in use 
have not been designed for reuse, repair, refurbishment or remanufacturing. How 
can sustainable entrepreneurs deal with the challenges and opportunities offered 
by these waste streams? When recycled, these residues are not considered 
valuable input materials for mainstream producers, as they often do not comply 
with standard material requirements. However, they may still contain valuable 
resources for other purposes (Bocken et al., 2017). With the right business model, 
these waste streams may be transformed into new products.  
Review of the literature 
In the typology of sustainable business model archetypes of Bocken, Short, Rana, 
& Evans (2014), this can be classified in the category 'Create value from waste', 
which is defined as eliminating the concept of ‘waste’ by turning waste streams 
into useful and valuable input to other production and making better use of under-

 
 
utilized capacity (Bocken et al., 2014). In the business models described in this 
category, the design of waste streams is an integral part of product design. In 
contrast, we seek to develop business models using 'externally sourced waste', i.e. 
products at the end of the life cycle of a 'regular' industry. For this purpose, instead 
of starting from a product idea or a customer or market as conventional business 
models do, a ‘residue-driven business model’ uses residual material as starting 
point (Kraaijenbrink et al., 2018). This business model is related to the typology of 
circular economy business model patterns, as identified by Geissdoerfer et al. 
(2018). When the ‘residue’ is decomposed to the level of the material, the 
‘residue-driven business model’ can be considered as a Recycling business model. 
When the ‘residue’ is being reused at the level of the product or its components, 
but for a different use it was originally designed for, it can be considered a 
Cascading and Repurposing business model. There is a need for ‘new business 
modelling tools that can be customized to the needs of CE business developers 
and product and service designers’ (Geissdoerfer et al., 2018, p.20). 
To guide entrepreneurs who are motivated to take a waste stream as a starting 
point a 'residue-driven business model approach’ was designed by experts from 
the field of business modelling, combining insights from the circular and 
sustainable business model literature (e.g. Bocken et al., 2016; Lüdeke-Freund et 
al., 2016) with insights from ‘material driven design’ (Karana et al., 2015) and 
practice. The aim of the residue-driven business model approach is to help 
sustainable entrepreneurs transform waste, unused products and other forms of 
residue into products or services that make a positive contribution to society 
(Kraaijenbrink et al., 2018). This can be viewed as a firm-centric approach for 
planned business models (Breuer et al., 2018).  The main goal is not primarily 
profit-making, but to ‘contribute to economic viability, environmental benefits, 
social concerns and preparation for long-term challenges of business associated’ 
(Geissdoerfer et al., 2018, p.714). Breuer et al. (2018) propose four guiding 
principles for any sustainability oriented business model approach: sustainability-
orientation, extended value creation, systemic thinking and stakeholder 
integration. They further provide four process-related criteria: reframing business 
model components, context-sensitive modelling, collaborative modelling process, 
and managing impacts and outcomes (Breuer et al., 2018). 
 
 

 
 
Aim and research method 
The aim of this paper is to elaborate how the application of the residue-driven 
business model approach can support sustainable entrepreneurship processes, 
creating value from waste, based on the guiding principles and process criteria as 
developed by Breuer et al., (2018). Our research question is: which existing 
business model tools can help entrepreneurs to develop a residue-driven business 
model in each of the four phases of the residue-driven business model approach, 
and what guidelines can assist entrepreneurs in the business development 
process? 
To answer this question, we present the residue-driven business model approach 
and explore in an academic setting how teams of university students apply the 
residue-driven business model approach in 10 company projects in which they 
take on the viewpoint of entrepreneurs. We use a multi-case study approach (Yin, 
2017), analysing for each case which tools were used and what measures were 
helpful in the process to come from a waste stream to a concept of a residue-
driven business model. Next a cross case comparison was conducted through 
pattern matching to develop insights that are analytically valid for comparable 
cases and for explanation building (Eisenhardt 1989; Yin 2017). The data we used 
for this study consisted of observations of the researchers during the business 
development processes of the teams, and process and reflection reports made by 
each team. Finally, we relate our findings to the guiding principles and process 
criteria for sustainability-oriented business model development. 
Preliminary results 
The residue-driven business model approach consists of four phases 
(Kraaijenbrink et al., 2018): 1. Defining impact: determining the economic, social 
or environmental contribution that can be made by transforming a specific residue 
material. 2. From residue to application: based on the unique characteristics of the 
residue, one or several modes for application and transformation will be searched. 
This is based on a combination of market, product idea and technology. 3. Creating 
a value proposition: the chosen application ideas will be developed into a specific 
value proposition. 4. Business model generation: The chosen value proposition will 
be developed into a complete business model. This includes the development of a 
value system and a revenue model that will at least break-even, and addresses the 
environmental benefits and social impact. Our preliminary findings in respect to 
the tools that were considered helpful in these phases are presented in Table 1.  

 
 
Table 1. Useful tools for each phase of the residue-driven business model approach (based 
on (Kraaijenbrink et al., 2018). 
Phase  
Activities 
Tools 
1. Defining impact 
Define purpose and intended 
impact of the business model  
Impact assessment at three levels 
(mission, stakeholder, society), 
milestone setting to evaluate social, 
financial and environmental impact 
2. From residue to 
application 
Explore material and identify 
options for value creation and 
potential application areas  
resource based analyses, 
brainstorming techniques,  
feasibility/suitability/acceptability 
studies 
3. Creating a value 
proposition 
Develop value propositions 
and market position  
value proposition canvas, customer 
validation and storytelling 
4. Business model 
generation 
Design the 
(collaborative/circular) 
business models  
mapping business activities and 
customer journey, business model 
canvas, (3P) business case 
 
Based on a cross-case comparison of the case studies we aim to derive several 
lessons in respect to the business model development process. First of all, the 
complexity of a circular business case requires advanced project management and 
coaching skills and short feedback loops (e.g. ‘sprints’), using  intermediate 
deliverables to achieve longer term commitment from stakeholders. Second, 
commitment of all stakeholders is regarded a key success factor which needs 
elaborate attention throughout the process. Third, a clear and shared view of 
potential impact and expected outcome is crucial, hence quantification of 
(intended) impact should be included both at the start and at the end of the 
residue-driven business development process.  
Keywords 
Circular economy; business modelling; business model tools; sustainable 
entrepreneurship; waste 
 

 
 
References 
Bocken, N. M. P., Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014). A literature and practice 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 65, 42–56.  
Bocken, N. M., de Pauw, I., Bakker, C., & van der Grinten, B. (2016). Product design 
and business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial 
and Production Engineering, 33(5), 308-320. 
Bocken, N. M., Olivetti, E. A., Cullen, J. M., Potting, J., & Lifset, R. (2017). Taking 
the circularity to the next level: a special issue on the circular economy. 
Journal of Industrial Ecology, 21(3), 476-482. 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Tiemann, I. (2018). Sustainability-
oriented business model development: Principles, criteria, and tools. 
International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing, 10(2), 256-286. 
Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989). Building Theories from Case Study Research. The 
Academy of Management Review.  
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M., & Hultink, E. J. (2017). The Circular 
Economy–A new sustainability paradigm?. Journal of cleaner production, 
143, 757-768. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Morioka, S. N., de Carvalho, M. M., & Evans, S. (2018). Business 
models and supply chains for the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 190, 712-721. 
Karana, E., Barati, B., Rognoli, V., Der Laan, V., & Zeeuw, A. (2015). Material driven 
design (MDD): A method to design for material experiences. International 
Journal of Design, 9(2), 35-54. 
Kraaijenbrink, J., Oskam, I., Boerema, M., van Dijck, E-J., van Hees, M., Martina, R., 
& van Winden, W. (2018). Van reststof naar rendement – een gids voor het 
ontwikkelen van reststof-gedreven business modellen (English: From waste 
to profit – a guide for developing resource-driven business models). 
Amsterdam: Hogeschool van Amsterdam. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Massa, L., Bocken, N., Brent, A., & Musango, J. (2016). Business 
models for shared value. Cape Town: Network for Business Sustainability 
South Africa. 
Lüdeke‐Freund, F., Gold, S., & Bocken, N. M. (2018). A Review and Typology of 
Circular Economy Business Model Patterns. Journal of Industrial Ecology. 
Yin, Robert K. 2017. Case Study Research and Applications: Design and Methods. 
Sage Publications.  
 

 
 
Sustainable business model 
innovation – A tradeoff?  
Finding the root-causes of innovation failure, not 
just curing the symptoms 
 
Felix Carl Schultz, Ingo Pies 
Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Germany 
 
Abstract 
Sustainable business models have experienced a recent surge in academic 
research and professional business strategy. In the context of increasingly dynamic 
environments, firms are faced with the necessity to adapt, re-structure, further 
develop and even radically change their traditional business models. Against this 
background, the ability to sustainably innovate one’s business model has become 
a key resource for realizing a competitive advantage and the according long-run 
business success. Empirical research indicates a failure rate of up to 90% in 
business model innovation practice, so business model innovation itself is not as 
sustainable as it should be in order to ensure market competitiveness. The 
conceptual and qualitative research outlined in this extended abstract provides a 
‘constitutional’ governance framework for sustainable business model innovation 
by establishing the ‘Cube of Sustainable Business Model Innovation (CoSBMI)’ as 
a tool for strategic management. The three-dimensional cube represents a 
comprehensive framework that covers 27 cases for identifying win-win potentials 
in business model innovation. It combines (i) three innovation process steps, (ii) 
three sustainability criteria and (iii) three commitment strategies for improving 
incentives. The developed ‘Cube of Sustainable Business Model Innovation’ aims 
at supporting theoretical and empirical analyses of the business model innovation 
process in line with sustainability (ESG) criteria, thus gaining a deeper 
understanding of the value network. The ‘major challenge’ in sustainable business 
model innovation can be solved by developing innovative and applicable strategies 
to overcome social dilemmas in a multi-stakeholder environment, rather than 
curing only symptoms of failure. 

 
 
Keywords 
cube of sustainable business model innovation, root-causes, stakeholder theory, 
social dilemmas, ESG criteria 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPEN INNOVATION ENABLED BY 
EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES: 
WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS 
FOR NEW BUSINESS MODELS? 
TRACK VI 

 
 
Track 
VI: 
Open 
Innovation 
Enabled 
by 
Emerging 
Technologies: What Are the Implications for New Business 
Models? 
 
Chairs: Maya Hoveskog1, Emma Incze2, Fawzi Halila3, Markus Raatikainen4, 
Stephen Davies5, and Antony Upward6 
1 Halmstad University, Sweden; 2University of Eastern Finland, Finland, 3Halmstad 
University, Sweden, 4University of Eastern Finland, Finland, 5OCAD University, 
Toronto, Canada, 6OCAD University, Toronto, Canada 
 
This session proposal aims to attract papers that shed light on the interplay 
between new business models and open innovation (OI) enabled by emerging 
technologies. 
The emergence of vertically disintegrated networks of innovation that connect 
actors into ecosystems (Chesbrough and Vanhaverbeke, 2018) require firms to 
modify or even radically change their existing innovating methods. As a result, 
innovation processes are slowly becoming more and more open in order to benefit 
from collaborative networks and OI. Chesbrough & Bogers (2014) define OI as “a 
distributed innovation process based on purposively managed knowledge flows 
across organizational boundaries” (p. 17). They emphasize that through the 
process of OI firms combine internal and external ideas into products, platforms 
and systems. And that the role of business models in that OI process is to define 
requirements for these products, platforms and systems in order to create and 
capture value. The existing literature on OI and sustainable innovation, as Rauter 
et al. (2017) revealed, covers nearly all aspects of the firm and has investigated 
aspects related to firms’ innovation processes, firms’ internal innovation systems 
with focus on strategy and culture as well as actors in the firms’ external 
innovation systems including cooperation factors and methods for OI. 
OI is particularly relevant to the processes and methods of designing new business 
models, given the complex nature of this work that requires the inclusion of 
multiple world-views and perspectives. OI can facilitate the emergence of a 
diverse ecosystem of people, organizations, and sectors with sufficient trust and 
understanding of mutual and collective self-interest for co-creation, exploration 
and exploitation of the firms’ innovative potential. OI is well positioned to facilitate 
an agreement on a set of shared value propositions in the value network and also 

 
 
systematically uncover the increasingly financially material new opportunities and 
increasing risks of the mega-forces of change which emerge from the current 
innovation techniques (de Boer et al., 2012; McDonough, 2002; Ing, 2017).  
Globally impactful and new business models are characterized by innovation and 
collaboration between wider set of stakeholders, taking a long-term perspective, 
striving towards achieving strong sustainability (Neumayer, 2013). This requires 
that the processes and outcomes of innovation (e.g. products, services, business 
models) are aligned with a mixture of ecological and social criteria, here called 
“design principles” (e.g. the Natural Step’s sustainability principles) formulated 
with help of latest natural science (Broman and Robèrt, 2017; Steffen et. al, 2018). 
OI enabled by technologies which are still early in their lifecycle, here labeled as 
emerging technologies, can be considered as novel means to connect networks of 
stakeholders and enable them to start wider co-creation for explicitly applying 
those “design principles”. However, there is still scarce evidence and very little is 
known about how firms use OI in order to fuel sustainable innovations and new 
business models (Rauter et al., 2017; Bogers Chesbrough and Moedas, 2018).  
The session is open to theoretical, conceptual, and empirical research papers 
(qualitative or quantitative) from a variety of industrial contexts, with a common 
thread and contribution to inform the interplay between new business models 
towards the normative goal of flourishing (Broman et al., 2017; Upward & Jones, 
2016) and OI enabled by emerging technologies. 
References / Further Reading 
Bogers, M., Chesbrough, H., & Moedas, C. (2018). Open innovation: research, 
practices, and policies. California Management Review, 60(2), 5-16. 
Broman, G. I., & Robèrt, K.-H. (2017). A framework for strategic sustainable 
development. Journal of Cleaner Production, 140(1), 17–31. 
Broman, G., Robèrt, K.-H., Collins, T. J., Basile, G., Baumgartner, R. J., Larsson, T., 
& Huisingh, D. (2017). Science in support of systematic leadership towards 
sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 140, 1–9. 
Chesbrough, H. & Bogers, M. (2014). Explicating Open Innovation: Clarifying an 
Emerging Paradigm for Understanding Innovation,” in New Frontiers in Open 
Innovation, ed. H. Chesbrough, W. Vanhaverbeke, and J. West (Oxford: 
Oxford University Press, 2014), pp. 3-28,  
Chesbrough, H.& Vanhaverbeke, W. (2018). Open Innovation and Public Policy in 
the EU with implications for SMEs. World Scientific Book Chapters 455-492. 

 
 
de Boer, Y., van Bergen, B., McKenzie, M., Averchenkova, A., Gladwin, T. N., Lyon, 
T., & Bunch, R. (2012). Expect the Unexpected: Building Business Value in a 
Changing World (pp. 1–180). KPMG International. Retrieved from 
https://home.kpmg.com/xx/en/home/insights/2012/02/building-business-
value.html  
Ing, D. (2017). Open Innovation Learning: Theory-building on open sourcing while 
private sourcing. Coevolving Innovations Inc. 
McDonough, W., & Braungart, M. (2002). Cradle to cradle: remaking the way we 
make things. New York City, New York, U.S.A.: North Point Press. 
Neumayer, E. (2003). Weak versus strong sustainability: exploring the limits of two 
opposing paradigms, Edward Elgar Publishing. 
Rauter, R., Perl-Vorbach, E., & Baumgartner, R. J. (2017). Is open innovation 
supporting sustainable innovation? Findings based on a systematic, 
explorative analysis of existing literature. International Journal of Innovation 
and Sustainable Development, 11(2-3), 249-270. 
Steffen, W., Rockström, J., Richardson, K., Lenton, T.M., Folke, C., Liverman, D., 
Summerhayes, C.P., Barnosky, A.D., Cornell, S.E., Crucifix, M. and Donges, 
J.F. (2018). Trajectories of the Earth System in the Anthropocene. 
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 115(33), 8252–825941. 
Upward, A., & Jones, P. (2016). An ontology for strongly sustainable business 
models: Defining an enterprise framework compatible with natural and 
social science. Organization & Environment, 29(1), 97-123. 
 
 

 
 
A design method for data driven 
business models  
 
Timber Haaker1,*, Wouter Groot2, Erik Hekman3  
 
1Saxion University of Applied Sciences; 2Amsterdam University of 
Applied Sciences; 3University of Applied Sciences Utrecht 
 
*t.i.haaker@saxion.nl 
 
Extended abstract  
Introduction 
The growing availability of data offers plenty of opportunities for data-driven 
innovation of business models. This certainly applies to interactive media 
companies. Interactive media companies are engaged in the development, 
provisioning, and exploitation of interactive media services and applications. 
Through the service interactions, they may collect large amounts of data which 
can be used to enhance applications or even define new propositions and business 
models. According to Lippell (2016), media companies can publish content in more 
sophisticated ways. They can build a deeper and more engaging customer 
relationship based on a deeper understanding of their users. Indeed, research 
from Weill & Woerner (2015) suggests that companies involved in the digital 
ecosystem that better understand their customers than their average competitor 
have significantly higher profit margins than their industry averages. Moreover, 
the same research suggests that businesses need to think more broadly about 
their position in the ecosystem. Open innovation and collaboration are essential 
for new growth, for example combining data within and across industries (Parmar 
et al., 2014). However, according to (Mathis and Köbler, 2016), these 
opportunities remain largely untapped as especially SMEs lack the knowledge and 
processes to translate data into attractive propositions and design viable data 
driven business models (DDBM). In this paper, we investigate how interactive 
media companies can structurally gain more insight and value from data and how 

 
 
they can develop DDBM. We define a DDBM as a business model relying on data 
as a key resource (Hartmann et al., 2016). 
Background 
There exist several generic approaches for developing service propositions and 
designing BMs like the Business Model Canvas (Osterwalder et al., 2010) or STOF 
method (De Vos & Haaker, 2008), and there are conceptual models, development 
approaches and patterns concerning DDBM specifically (Hartmann et al., 2016; 
Brownlow et al., 2015; Mathis and Köbler, 2016; Schaefer et al., 2017). Hartmann 
develops a conceptual model, i.e., the DDBM Framework, with typical business 
model components like an offering, customers and revenue model but adding 
Data Sources and Key (data) Activities as key components of a DDBM. For each 
concept, Hartmann also proposes typical solutions or patterns (Remane et al., 
2017). Brownlow (2015) builds on Hartmann’s conceptual model by adding a 
development approach based on asking key business model questions. Schaefer 
(2017) did an analysis of data-driven business models in industry 4.0 and 
considered common characteristics in a hybrid Business Model Canvas. Mathis 
and Köbler (2016) developed the Data Canvas and Data-Need Fit to systematically 
document the available data and a process to match available data with user 
needs, respectively. 
Research goal 
The main goal of this research is to design and evaluate a practical method for 
developing DDBM in the context of interactive media companies. The method 
builds on the DDBM framework of Hartmann and the process model of Brownlow. 
Business model patterns and pre-defined solutions are integrated into the 
method. In the evaluation, the goal is to test the efficacy of the method. In 
particular, the efficacy of the use of patterns vis-à-vis a method without such 
patterns, and the contribution to supporting collaborative multi-actor innovation. 
Research design 
This research is part of a national project on DDBM and involves researchers and 
students from academia and practitioners from interactive media companies. The 
development of the DDBM design method follows a design science research (DSR) 
approach (Gregor & Hevner, 2013), as summarized in Table 1. 

 
 
Table 1 DSR approach, objectives and research methods (adapted from Gregor & Hevner, 2013). 
Steps 
Objectives this paper 
Research Methods 
(1) Introduction 
Problem statement, research 
objective 
Literature review, 
practitioners’ interviews 
(2) Background 
Theories behind the problem 
Literature review 
(3) Research design 
Description of the DSR approach Literature review 
(4) Results 
Development and description of 
the DDBM design method (the 
artifact) 
Action research; iterative 
development 
with 
practitioners 
(5) Evaluation 
First evaluation results from 
pilot with master students 
Experimental 
design, 
reflection 
(6) Discussion 
Interpretation of results 
Qualitative analysis of data 
(7) Conclusions 
Communicating main findings so 
far and collect feedback on 
future steps 
Interpretation, peer review 
 
In the first step (‘Introduction’) we held interviews with interactive media 
companies to better understand their needs for developing DDBM. For the second 
step (‘Background’) we reviewed literature on DDBM, business model design 
methods and data driven innovation in the context of media companies. The third 
step (‘Research design’) is about the DSR approach that was followed as described 
in this section. For the fourth step (‘Results’) we first developed the conceptual 
basis for our DDBM design method by extending the framework of Hartmann 
(2016) with concepts from the process model of Brownlow (2015), the concept of 
value networks, and concepts from business model implementation (De Reuver et 
al., 2017). Based on this adapted framework, a first version of the method was 
developed. The method was practically elaborated into a workshop format with 
accompanying templates and supporting materials. Subsequently, the method 
was iteratively tested and redesigned in a series of workshops with practitioners 
from the interactive media companies involved in the project and with students. 
The formative evaluations have led to a first full version of the DDBM design 
method, a step-by-step approach for developing a DDBM. Templates and 
materials were designed together with an external design agency.  
For the fifth step (‘Evaluation’), we will evaluate the efficacy of the DDBM design 
method.  In particular the efficacy of the use of patterns vis-à-vis a method without 
such patterns, the contribution to collaborative multi-actor innovation, and the 
added value of a facilitated use of the method. In the sixth step (‘Discussion’) we 

 
 
discuss preliminary results and in the seventh step (‘Conclusion’) the main 
contribution and practical implications. 
Results 
The main result is a six-step method for developing DDBM. It starts with 
determining the intended business goals and intended data innovation. 
Consequently, in steps 2 and step 3, the required data sources and data activities 
are determined, respectively. In step 4 we develop the value network, i.e. the set 
of business roles and actors fulfilling these roles and value flows between them. 
Next in step 5, the business model is complemented with the revenue model(s) 
and the financial flows between the actors. Finally, in step 6, the actions to be 
taken to implement the (new) business model are prioritized and positioned on a 
roadmap with desired actions. Table 2 summarizes the approach indicating goals, 
intended results, and available support materials.  
Table 2 Overview of DDBM design method with steps, goals, results and support materials 
Step and goal 
Intended results 
Support materials 
(1) Determine Goals 
Company 
goal, 
data 
innovation 
goal, 
target 
group, proposition 
Theory card, inspiration cards, 
goal 
cards, 
Goal-Data-
Innovation game board 
(2) Select Data Sources 
Overview of required data 
and data sources  
Theory card, data source cards 
(3) Define Data Activities 
Overview of required data 
activities 
Theory card, data activity cards, 
data activity game board 
(4) Sketch Business Model 
Business model as a value 
network with actors and 
value flows 
Theory 
card, 
actor 
cards, 
business model game board 
(5) Choose Revenue Model 
Business model as a value 
network 
with 
revenue 
model and financial flows 
Theory card, revenue model 
cards 
(6) Develop Roadmap  
Overview of actions in 
roadmap 
Priority 
cards, 
roadmap 
template 
 
Each step is supported by a card deck with pre-defined solutions or patterns for 
inspiration, see Figure 1. In step 1, the method provides inspiration cards 
highlighting companies with successful data driven business models. At step 2, the 
method provides cards with typical data sources (customer data, partner data, 
open data, etc.), and for step 3, typical data activities (data acquisition, data 

 
 
aggregation, etc.). For each step, users design solutions by selecting appropriate 
pre-defined cards and/or formulate their solutions on blank cards. Game boards 
are available to collect and annotate cards. For example, in step 4, users create 
actor cards for each involved actor. Actor cards describe the key activity and key 
resource that the actor brings to the network. The game board allows users to 
arrange cards in a value network and to add the value exchanges and flows 
between the actors. The end result is a clear overview of a new DDBM. In the final 
step, users think of practical steps towards implementation of the DDBM and place 
them on the roadmap game board.     
 
Figure 1 Examples of predefined cards for data source and data activity, respectively. 
 
The six steps are embedded in a format for a facilitated workshop, which we 
consider the main use case for the method. However, the method with the 
materials can also be used by practitioners in a self-service setting. 
Contribution and practical implication 
First, the conceptual model underlying the DDBM design method extends current 
conceptual models. In particular, the value network view adds a multi-actor 
perspective to DDBM, and provides insights in the complex value flows within 
data-ecosystems. Next, as part of the design science approach, design knowledge 

 
 
regarding data-driven business models will be generated. In particular knowledge 
about the added value of applying patterns and pre-defined solutions within 
business model design methods. 
The research provides a practical and tested approach for developing DDBM for 
interactive media companies and the broader community of data-rich service 
providers. With this method, practitioners will able to develop and test new 
collaborative DDBM faster. 
Keywords 
Business Model, Data driven, Design method, Open innovation, Multi actor 
References 
De Vos H., & Haaker T. (2008) The STOF Method. In: Bouwman H., De Vos H., 
Haaker T. (eds). Mobile Service Innovation and Business Models. Springer, 
Berlin, Heidelberg, pp. 115-136. 
Brownlow, J., Zaki, M. Neely, A., & Urmetzer, F. (2015) Data and Analytics - Data-
Driven Business Models: A Blueprint for Innovation. Working paper, 
Cambridge Service Alliance, University of Cambridge. Available from 
https://cambridgeservicealliance.eng.cam.ac.uk/resources/Downloads/Mo
nthly%20Papers/2015MarchPaperTheDDBMInnovationBlueprint.pdf. 
[Accessed: 31st January 2019] 
De Reuver, M., Bouwman, H., & Haaker, T. (2013), T. Business model roadmapping: 
a practical approach to come from an existing to a desired business model. 
International Journal of Innovation Management 17/01, 2013. 
Gregor, S., & A. R. Hevner (2013) Positioning Design Science Research for 
Maximum Impact. Management Information Systems Quarterly, 37 (2), 337–
355. 
Hartmann, P., Zaki, M. E., Feldmann, N., & Neely, A. D. (2016) Capturing value from 
big data – a taxonomy of data-driven business models used by start-up firms. 
International Journal of Operations and Production Management, 36 (10), 
pp. 1382-1406. 
Lippell, H. (2016) Big Data in the Media and Entertainment Sectors, In: Cavanillas, 
J.M., Curry, E. & Wahlster, W. (eds.) New Horizons for a Data-Driven 
Economy: A Roadmap for Usage and Exploitation of Big Data in Europe. 
Springer International Publishing, pp. 245-259. 

 
 
Mathis, K., & Köbler, F. (2016). Data-Need Fit – Towards data-driven business 
model innovation, In: Morelli, N., De Götzen, A. & Grani, F. (eds.). Service 
Design Geographies. Proceedings of the ServDes.2016 Conference, 
Copenhagen, Denmark. Linköping University Electronic Press. Available from 
http://www.ep.liu.se.tudelft.idm.oclc.org/ecp/contents.asp?issue=125 
[Accessed: 31st January 2019]. 
Osterwalder, A., Pigneur, Y., Clark, T., & Smith, A. (2010) Business model 
generation: A handbook for visionaries, game changers, and challengers. 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey. 
Parmar, R. Mackenzie, I., Cohn, D. & Gann, D. (2014) The new patterns of 
innovation. Harvard Business Review, January-February 2014. Available 
from: https://hbr.org/2014/01/the-new-patterns-of-innovation [Accessed 
31st January 2019] 
Remane, G., Hanelt, A., Tesch, J. & Kolbe, L. (2017) The business model pattern 
database—a tool for systematic business model innovation. International 
Journal of Innovation Management. 21 (1), 1750004. 
Schaefer, D., Walker, J. & Flynn, J. (2017) A Data-driven Business Model 
Framework for Value Capture in Industry 4.0. In: Gao, J., El Souri, M., & 
Keates, S. J. (eds.) Advances in Manufacturing Technology XXXI, IOS Press, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.  
Weill, P. & Woerner, S. L. (2015) Thriving in an increasingly digital ecosystem. MIT 
Sloan Management Review. 56(4), 27-34. 
 
 
 

 
 
Backcasting for ideal business models 
and pathways for forest-based sector 
firms by 2030  
 
Annukka Näyhä1,2* 
 
1Corporate Environmental Management, Jyväskylä University School 
of Business and Economics; 2School of Resource Wisdom, University 
of Jyväskylä 
 
*annukka.nayha@jyu.fi 
 
Extended abstract  
It is widely agreed in our society that sustainable development cannot be achieved 
without systemic change in our current production and consumption patterns. 
Practitioners and academics have started to increasingly emphasize the 
importance of business models for attaining systemic change (Loorbach and 
Wijsman, 2013; Bidmon and Knab, 2018). In other words, companies and their 
strategies and business models are seen to play an important part in achieving the 
systemic-level transition. It is often brought up that emerging novel business 
models should be sustainable, circular, renewable, resource efficient, innovative 
and inclusive (e.g., Boons, 2013; Bocken et al., 2014; Wells, 2016; Hetemäki et al., 
2017, Rauter et al., 2017). In Finland, new forest-based businesses are considered 
important for the transition to more sustainable circular bioeconomy (e.g., 
Ministry of Economy and Employment of Finland, 2014; Hetemäki et al., 2017, 
Näyhä, 2019). 
The goal of this research is to explore the transition of Finnish forest-based sector 
companies to new business models. As a starting point, the current position of the 
companies in the markets, as defined by the companies themselves, is described. 
More specifically, the main aim is to study how forest-based sector companies 
define their ideal future states and related roles and business models by 2030 as 
well as the steps and pathways needed for transition.  

 
 
The research approach and methodology used here has been described earlier in 
Näyhä (2019), because the data for these studies were gathered from the same 
interviews. The data consist of semi-structured thematic interviews with 18 
company managers from various forest-based sector firms and companies from 
interfacing sectors, all of which have operations in Finland. The participating 
companies were all involved in the development of new products and services 
from wood-based raw material. The aim was to include as many different types of 
organizations as possible. The firms varied in business models, product portfolio, 
maturity, size, growth plans, market orientation and the role of new products 
versus old products in their portfolio. In addition to traditional FBS products, there 
were various new wood-based products and services under strategic planning, 
R&D, commercialization and/or production. The firms varied from large-scale, 
traditional and mature FBS companies to SMEs and start-up firms. Most of the 
firms categorized themselves primarily as bioeconomy companies, and many 
considered themselves as both bioeconomy and circular economy firms. (For more 
on company views on the bioeconomy and circular economy, see Näyhä, 2019.)  
The interviewees were given the main studied topics beforehand during the initial 
inquiry, so that they could decide if they were likely to possess adequate 
knowledge about the themes. In the interviews, the key idea of a backcasting 
approach was loosely followed (e.g. Vergragt and Quist, 2011), that is, company 
representatives were asked to define desired future states for their own 
businesses and for the whole Finnish forest-based sector in 2030. The respondents 
were not given any more specific guidelines for describing these states. During the 
interviews, the respondents often discussed their future goals in relation to other 
questions, and these perspectives are also included in the final outcome. 
The data were approached mainly inductively (see Patton, 2002, p. 56; Thomas, 
2006). This means, for example, that the coding (see also “open coding”, in Strauss 
and Corbin, 1998; Kovalainen and Eriksson, 1998) was not limited to the 
predetermined theoretical frameworks. It needs to be mentioned in this context 
that a purely inductive approach is not possible in any research, because it would 
require that the researcher does not have any preconceptions on the studied 
subject (see Patton, 2002; Eriksson and Kovalainen, 2008). The interviews were 
transcribed and ATLAS.ti was used as an analysis tool. The data were examined 
applying thematic analysis (Braun and Clarke, 2006; Guest et al., 2006). The 
analysis loosely followed the step-by-step guide presented by Braun and Clarke 
(2006). The basic rules for open coding created by Eriksson and Kovalainen (2008, 
p. 164, modified from Strauss, 1990; Strauss and Corbin, 1998) were also applied.  

 
 
Even though the companies define themselves as bio-and circular economy actors 
(see also Näyhä, 2019), many other organizational categories are relevant for 
them as well. Based on the data, three different ideal future states could be 
distinguished for the forest based sector companies (Näyhä, 2018). These states 
can be defined as follows: traditional production as a basis for new businesses; 
new large-scale production; and SMEs and high value-added products at the core. 
The respondents highlighted that expanded business and largely increased profits 
will be based on new products and services, thereby creating more versatile 
product portfolios. Well-recognized company status with established market 
position can be attained with strong knowledge, innovations and hard work as well 
as specialization and a high degree of upgrading. Environmental sustainability, 
customer needs and partnerships were also emphasized. The ideal future state for 
the whole of the Finnish forest-based sector was named “green valley of forest-
based sector”, meaning that the Finnish forest-based sector is seen as a pioneer 
that carefully considers environmental perspectives also on a global scale. Overall, 
the growth in the sector is based on new actors, products and services, which also 
accelerate the transformation of the traditional businesses. 
At this point, reflections and discussions on the findings are largely unfinished. 
However, the study aims to discuss the findings in terms of both business model 
and transition research, while also drawing on the literature on organizational 
categories. It rests on the idea that the studies at the intersection of management 
studies (firm-level perspective) and transition studies facilitate our understanding 
of the roles of various organizations and industries in sustainability transitions (see 
e.g. Boons et al. 2013; Loorbach and Wijsman, 2013; STRN, 2017, Bidmon and 
Knab, 2018). The core standpoint here is that companies see their new forest-
based businesses as a response to urgent global challenges, such as climate change 
and the need for the utilization of renewable resources, thus facilitating 
sustainability transition (see also Näyhä, 2019). However, despite how these 
businesses were believed to produce sustainability benefits for society, there are 
also many challenges related to how companies can fulfill their own visions or the 
specific requirements set by their stakeholders. Therefore, this study suggests a 
range of perspectives on the question of if the desired future states and related 
perspectives of the forest-based sector firms are in line with societal aims such as 
the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (UN General Assembly, 2015). The study 
also presents reflections on what kind of role these attained business models 
could possibly have in sustainability transition and what type of stakeholder 
dialogue and actions would facilitate the process. 

 
 
Keywords 
Forest-based sector, Finnish companies, Transition, Backcasting, Ideal futures 
References 
Bidmon, C.M. Knab, S. F. 2018. The three roles of business models in societal 
transitions: New linkages between business model and transition research, 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 178, 9003-916. 
Bocken, N.M.P., Short, S., Rana, P., Evans, S., 2014. A literature and practice review 
to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Production 65, 42–56. 
Boons, A., Montalvo, C., Quist, J., Wagner, D., 2013. Sustainable innovation, 
business models and economic performance: An overview. Journal of 
Cleaner Production 45, 1–8. 
Braun, V. and Clarke, V., 2006. Using thematic analysis in psychology. Qualitative 
Research in Psychology, Vol. 3, No. 2. pp. 77-101. 
Eriksson, P. and Kovalainen, A., 2008. Qualitative Methods in Business Research. 
Sage Publications, London. 
Guest, G., MacQueen, K., Namey, E., 2012. Applied Thematic Analysis, Sage 
Publications, Thousands Oaks, California. 
Hetemäki, L., Hanewinkel, M., Muys, B., Ollikainen, M., Palahí, M., Trasobares, A., 
2017. Leading the way to a European circular bioeconomy strategy. From 
Science 
to 
Policy 
5. 
European 
Forest 
Institute. 
http://www.efi.int/files/attachments/publications/efi_fstp_5_2017.pdf, 
Accessed date April 17, 2018. 
Loorbach, D. and Wisjman, K. 2013. Business transition management: exploring a 
new role for business in sustainability transitions, Journal of Cleaner 
Production, Vol.  45, pp. 20-28 
Ministry of Employment and Economy of Finland, 2014. Finnish Bioeconomy 
strategy. 
http://biotalous.fi/wp-
content/uploads/2014/08/The_Finnish_BE_Strategy_110620141.pdf  
Näyhä, A., 2018. Desired future states of Finnish forest-based sector firms in 2030: 
Forerunners of versatile and sustainable circular bioeconomy? Abstract and 
presentation in YHYS colloquium. 
Näyhä, A., 2019. Transition in the Finnish forest-based sector: Company 
perspectives on the bioeconomy, circular economy and sustainability. 
.Journal of Cleaner Production, Vol. 209, pp. 1294-1306. 
Patton, M.Q., 2002. Qualitative Research & Evaluation methods.  3rd Edition, Sage 
publications, Thousands Oak, CA. 

 
 
Rauter, R., Jonker, J., Baumgartner, R. J. 2017. Going one’s own way: drivers in 
developing business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
140, 144-154. 
Strauss, A., 1990. Qualitative Analysis for Social Scientists. New York, NY: 
Cambridge University Press. 
Strauss, A. and Corbin, J., 1998. Basics of Qualitative Research. Thousand Oaks, CA. 
Sustainability Transitions Research Network (STRN), 2017. Research agenda. 
Available 
at 
https://transitionsnetwork.org/wp-
content/uploads/2018/01/STRN_Research_Agenda_2017.pdf 
Thomas, D. R. 2006. A General Inductive Approach for Analyzing Qualitative 
Evaluation Data, American Journal of Evaluation, 27, 237-246. 
UN General Assembly, Transforming our world : the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development, 
21 
October 
2015, A/RES/70/1, available 
at: 
https://www.refworld.org/docid/57b6e3e44.html [accessed 2 May 2019] 
Vergragt, P. J. and Quist, J. 2011. Backcasting for sustainability: Introduction to the 
special issue. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, Vol. 78, No. 5, 
pp.  747-755. 
Wells, P., 2016. Economies of scale versus small is beautiful: A business model 
approach based on architecture, principles and components on the beer 
industry. Organization and Environment 29, 36–52. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Business model innovation in niche-
regime interaction: The case of 
demand response in Finland 
 
Salvatore Ruggiero1, Hanna-Liisa Kangas2, Tiina Ohrling1, Salla 
Annala3 
1Aalto University, Finland; 2Finnish Environment Institute (SYKE); 3LUT 
School of Energy Systems – Electrical Engineering 
 
Abstract 
Demand response (DR) can be an efficient way to add reliability and flexibility into 
the energy system. As new business models for DR are emerging, this study aims 
at understanding the drivers behind business model innovation and identifying the 
existing business model innovation patterns in the DR sector. We study these 
issues through the lens of the multi-level perspective (MLP) on socio-technical 
transitions and the emerging strand of research focussing on business model 
innovation in socio-technical transitions. Our research material consists of 25 
semi-structured interviews conducted with experts and representatives of DR 
companies in Finland. The preliminary results show that there are both internal 
and external factors that contribute to the rise of new business models. 
Predominant external divers are EU electricity market harmonisation, 
digitalization, increased share of renewable energy and EVs. Whereas important 
internal drivers are environmental values, desire to be part of a possible new 
Finnish technological success story -“the new Nokia”. We identify three business 
model innovation patterns, which we name: (1) the phoenix rise, (2) business 
model expansion, and (3) incumbent companies’ catch-up. Based on the analysis 
of these clasters of business models, we conclude that business model innovation 
seems to trigger a bidirectional niche-regime interaction; from niche to regime as 
well as from regime to niche. 
Keywords 
demand response, business model innovation, niche-regime interaction, Finland 

 
 
Fostering collaborative technology 
innovation in water treatment 
 
Julia Katharine Beyersdorf 
Fraunhofer ISI, Germany 
 
Abstract 
Water scarcity affects 40 per cent of global population. Due to population growth, 
urban migration, climate change, micro pollutants and agricultural usage, 
projections set the global demand for water to exceed supply by 40 per cent within 
the next 5-10 years. Ensuring access to and safety of water as well as reducing 
pollution of water resources will thus be crucial. At 60 per cent, reverse osmosis 
(RO) membranes, related processes and infrastructures constitute the globally 
most widespread water treatment technology. Improving efficiencies and 
reducing maintenance hours of RO-based water treatment plants and portable 
devices could hence result in significant environmental and social effects. In view 
of that, public and private researchers investigate alternative water treatment 
technologies. However, sustainable entrepreneurship research shows sustainable 
technology adaption and business model innovation to be of complex 
interdependencies and high uncertainty. We argue that collaborative, iterative 
innovation processes such as roadmapping can facilitate creating sustainable 
solutions and reducing planning uncertainty in sustainable entrepreneurship. We 
therefore tested roadmapping as a process and a visual tool in course of a case 
study on graphene-enhanced water desalination and purification technologies. 
Methods for gathering information involved semi-structured stakeholder 
interviews, desk research, and a one-day stakeholder workshop. For initially 
assessing the roadmapping process, we distributed workshop results amongst 
participants and conducted follow-up interviews with select stakeholders. 
Keywords 
sustainable 
entrepreneurship, 
technology, 
stakeholder 
management, 
roadmapping, water supply 

 
 
Responsive innovation system for 
digital energy services 
 
Ralitsa Petrova Hiteva1, Timothy J. Foxon 
1Science Policy Research Unit, Sussex Energy Group, University of 
Sussex, UK  
 
*R.Hiteva@sussex.ac.uk 
 
Keywords 
Energy service business models, co-evolution, regulatory sandbox, innovation, 
peer-to-peer trading  
Extended Abstract 
Digital innovation and the low carbon agenda have given rise to new energy 
services business models, offering a range of opportunities for energy service 
innovation with potential to improve the uptake of renewable and decentralised 
energy, and the efficiency of energy trading and use, while reducing absolute 
energy consumption. Digital innovations such as vehicle-to-grid exchanges, peer-
to-peer and peer-to-many energy trading, are just a few examples of such 
innovations fundamentally challenging the way energy is produced, distributed 
and used, and by whom. These business model innovations involve a multitude of 
new interfaces between different actors, processes and technologies, involved in 
the delivery of desirable energy services for energy users and the energy system. 
These mainly evolve around new sets of values around flexibility, storage and 
carbon emissions reduction, as well as the more traditional security and 
affordability of energy. However, there are also innovative energy service business 
models built around values such as sustainable energy generation, transmission 
and use, aiming to empower users at the micro level (within a single building). 
While the UK Industrial Strategy recognises the need for developing a flexible 
regulatory framework which enables rather than constrains the development of 
such business models (such as Ofgem’s Regulatory Sandbox), the barriers faced by 

 
 
innovators are multifaceted, with big differences in experience depending on the 
type and scale of innovations. Innovative business models struggle to find sound 
economic and regulatory footing outside of temporary regulatory sandbox trials 
offered by the UK energy regulator. While often innovations at the microscale are 
scaled down at conception because of insurmountable technical and regulatory 
barriers before applying for a trial status.  
On one hand the digitalisation of energy services has delivered on its promise of 
democratisation, by opening up business models of energy generation, delivery 
and use to new stakeholders. On the other hand, making these technologies work 
for a broader group of people would mean the creation of a responsive innovation 
system for digital energy service, with new and greater coordination between the 
three core elements of digital technologies, business models and regulatory 
environment. By examining closely the co-evolution of these three elements in the 
context of UK digital energy services, this paper discusses the factors influencing 
the lifecycle of innovations from initial ideas to fully-fledged business models and 
the variety of value chain stakeholders that these include.  
The concept of business models has been widely discussed in the context of 
technological and social innovation, co-creation with customers, sustainability and 
deregulation (Foxon et al., 2015; Foss and Saebi, 2017; Massa et al, 2017; Hiteva 
et al., 2018). The paper uses a business model framework, defined here as an 
assemblage of actors, processes and technologies through which value(s) are 
created, captured and monetised, to examine the coordination and co-evolution 
of stakeholders, innovations and regulation. This approach includes a much wider 
and more diverse range of partners, technologies and processes and presents a 
specific way of bringing them together, as “a system of interdependent activities 
that transcend the focal form and span its boundaries” (p. 216). The business 
model framework is particularly useful in understanding interdependencies, as it 
tends to bring to light how different external and internal elements are interlinked 
and weave through value activities. It is these interdependencies between 
divergent components, which can lead to complementary effects (Demil and 
Lecocq, 2010; Massa and Tucci, 2014) that are of particular interest for developing 
sustainable energy futures. Business models also provide a form of “architecture” 
made up of various components and the relationships between them. We can 
therefore think of business models as energy service architecture (Heij et al., 2014 
and Johnson et al., 2008), made up of external and internal components, including 
an economic model, internal infrastructure, target market, partner network, and 
value offering (Morris et al, 2005; Ostewalder and Pigneur, 2009).  

 
 
The paper unpacks 1) the types of innovative digital energy service models that 
take place; 2) the values created for energy users and the energy system, and 3) 
the coordination and discontinuities between the digital technologies, business 
models and the regulatory environment. It concludes by reflecting on what a 
responsive innovation system for digital energy services at different scales might 
look like.  
This paper addresses the co-creation of technological, regulatory and business 
model innovation towards sustainability. It does this through examining the 
interactions between the actions of stakeholders, including local community 
initiatives as well as existing energy supply companies, to develop new business 
models incorporating low carbon and social goals, and the evolution of wider 
energy technology, regulatory and business systems. Through an Innovation 
Forum with local energy innovators in the Greater Brighton area to be held in the 
second part of 2019, initial insights from the research (following projects mapping 
and semi-structured interviews) will be enhanced by feedback from these 
innovators, by creating a safe space for interaction between the different value 
chain stakeholders, using a flexible, non-academic format and content which 
meets the need of the value chain. 
References 
Demil, B. and Lecocq, X. (2010) Business Model Evolution: In Search of Dynamic 
Consistency. Long Range Planning, 43, 227-246.  
Foss, N.J. and Saebi,T. (2017) Fifteen Years of Research on Business Model 
Innovation: How Far Have We Come, and Where Should We Go?, Journal of 
Management. 
Foxon, T.J., Bale, C.S.E., Busch, J., Bush, R., Hall, S. and Roelich, K. (2015) Low 
carbon infrastructure investment: extending business models for 
sustainability, Infrastructure Complexity, (2):4. 
Heij, C.V., Volberda, H.W. and Van den Bosch, F.A.J (2014) How does business 
model innovation influence firm performance: the effect of environmental 
dynamism, Academy of Management Proceedings (1).  
Hiteva, R., Foxon, T. and Lovell, K. April (2017) Value Creation and Capture for a 
Low Carbon Infrastructure, in Handbook of International Political Economy 
of Energy and Natural Resources, (eds) Caroline Kuzemko, Andreas Goldthau 
and Michael Keating, Edward Elgar.  
Johnson, M. W., Christensen, C. M., Kagermann, H. (2008) Reinventing your 
business model. Harvard Business Review, 86 (12): 50-59.  

 
 
Massa, L. and Tucci, C.L. (2014) Business Model Innovation, The Oxford Handbook 
of Innovation Management. 
Massa, L., Tucci, C. and Afuah, A. (2017) A critical assessment of business model 
research. Academy of Management Annals, 11(1), 73–104.    
Morris, M., Schindehutte, M. and Jeffrey Allen (2005) The entrepreneur’s business 
model: toward a unified perspective, Journal of Business Research (58) 726–
735   
Ostewalder, A. and Pigneur,Y. (2009) Business Model Generation. A Handbook for 
Visionaries, Game Changers and Challengers, Wiley. 
 

 
 
The challenges of transitions towards 
a more sustainable business  
Introducing THRIVE framework 
 
Morris D Fedeli1,*  
 
1University of Southern Queensland 
*morris@fedeli.nu 
 
Abstract  
Several obstacles face enterprises55 and their leaders during their transformation 
journey towards sustainability. Shifting from a siloed and comfortable ‘Business as 
Usual’ approach to creatively leveraging on new opportunities requires radical 
innovation, worldwide integration, institutionalization of processes and the right 
business strategy. 
This study conceptually introduces The Holistic Regenerative Innovative Value 
Enterprise (THRIVE) framework and develops THRIVE platform and Sustainability 
Performance Scorecard (SPS) tool with visualizations in the form of pioneering 
ciambella charts. Operationalized at the meso-level, aided by machine learning 
and predictive analytics tools, THRIVE SPS tool transparently ranks the corporate 
sustainability performance of enterprises alongside their strategy or business 
model. 
Rooted in systems thinking, this study develops nascent design theory-knowledge 
through a design science research (DSR) approach, building on emerging science-
based literature and illustrated by exemplary case studies. A holistic analysis of 
the projected phenomenon informs the kernel theory, building on established 
                                                 
55 Authors use a range of terms interchangeably when referring to the entity under discussion in their studies. 
These include company, institution, organization, corporation, business, firm and enterprise.  Wherever 
possible, this study standardizes on the word 'enterprise(s)' to mean the entity itself. 

 
 
science-based first principles, together with reputable global data sources and 
purposely selected impact case studies.  
THRIVE SPS dashboard provides for the manipulation of engine weights and 
controls, allowing assessment of performance and forecasted effects of changes 
in regulations such as taxes or subsidies on carbon credits to be visualized. 
Contributing to a healthier planet, THRIVE framework and SPS tool aids enterprises 
transitioning from disclosure to exposure, thereby providing the necessary 
impetus for business leaders to compete with one another and individual 
consumers to reward enterprises that choose to do good to do well for the 
prosperity of all humankind. 
Keywords 
business strategy, business transformation, context-based sustainability, 
corporate sustainability performance, sustainability performance scorecard. 
INTRODUCTION 
Regarded as interdependent sides of the same coin (Braun et al. 2019), innovative 
business strategies or business models (Casadesus-Masanell & Ricart 2010) 
represent our best source for tackling ever increasing systemic planetary crisis 
(Robèrt et al. 2013; Rockstrom 2009; Steffen et al. 2018). Yet following a 
comprehensive review, no study nor public tools were found connecting business 
models with strong sustainability (Neumayer 2010; Pelenc 2015) performance by 
means of context-based measurements (Haffar & Searcy 2018) and science-based 
targets (Adams et al. 2015; Bocken et al. 2014; Foss & Saebi 2016; Melkonyan et 
al. 2017).  
Studies reveal that business leaders and innovators report not knowing where to 
start in making the transition to sustainability (Breuer & Lüdeke-Freund 2017; 
Kurucz et al. 2017; Schaltegger et al. 2016a). By applying a precautionary 
principled stance (Costanza & Patten 1995), backcasting (Holmberg & Robèrt 
2000; Voros 2003; Willard et al. 2013) emerges as a particularly relevant approach 
in aiding transition. With this technique, society envisions the future sought, and 
works backward to the present whilst setting milestones along the way. By 
defining the framework and tools to evaluate corporate sustainability 
performance of enterprises, guidance is provided during their transition to 
becoming sustainable and prompts enterprises to embrace a strive to thrive 

 
 
philosophy, requiring change at a scale, speed and scope unseen before (Baue & 
Thurm 2018; SBTi 2018).  
From an ecological economist risk minimization perspective (Broman et al. 2017) 
this study conceptualizes The Holistic Regenerative Innovative Value Enterprise 
(THRIVE) framework; providing the basis for formulating tools which openly rank 
corporate sustainability performance of enterprises alongside their business 
strategy. A business strategy is defined as the enactment of a set of business 
models (Wirtz et al. 2016) across the three pillars of sustainability, being the 
economic, social and environmental (Elkington 2004). Worthwhile noting is that 
an enterprise operates a combination or hybridization of business models 
(BMs)(Laasch 2017). Many attempts to date to report on the corporate 
sustainability performance of enterprises have amounted to little more than 
disclosures (Lydenberg et al. 2010; WBCSD 2017a), with several reports plagued 
by greenwashing (Najam et al. 2000). THRIVE framework and SPS tool delivers the 
impetus for enterprises to move from disclosure to exposure, ensuring 
sustainability risks are assessed as business risks (WBCSD 2017a).   
Geissdoerfer et al. (2018) highlights how many business modes (BMs) fail and 
Clauss's (2016) study indicates that a validated business model innovation (BMI) 
measuring scale is not yet available. Operating at the meso scale (Thurm 2016), 
THRIVE framework establishes a uniform, integrated and standardized platform 
(http://www.strive2thrive.earth); which together with THRIVE sustainability 
performance scorecard (SPS) tool, ranks the sustainability performance of 
enterprises alongside their business model (BM). Thus THRIVE SPS illuminates the 
pathway for enterprises to move from statutory to voluntary disclosure in their 
quest towards sustainability through business model innovation (BMI) (Amit & 
Zott 2012).  
The meso scale is situated at the interface between the micro and macro 
environment where the greatest opportunity for positive change can occur (Baue 
& Thurm 2018). This makes THRIVE framework the most useful way forward in 
addressing Elkington (2018) revised triple bottom line approach. Furthermore, this 
compares favourably with the Sustainability Assessment of Farming and the 
Environment (SAFE) (Van Cauwenbergh et al. 2007) hierarchical framework, 
composed of principles, criteria, indicators and reference values organized in a 
structured way and used for assessing the sustainability of agro-ecosystems. 

 
 
The utility of the proposed THRIVE framework and Sustainability Performance 
Scorecard (SPS) tool encourages disruption (Bansal 2019) through radical 
innovation, compatible with natural science; driving maximum creativity within 
natural socio-environmental constraints (Gill & Hevner 2013; Pries-Heje & 
Baskerville 2014; Upward & Jones 2016). Ecological footprint analysis 
(Wackernagel et al. 2005) shows that humans are in ‘overshoot’ having used 1.7 
Earths equivalent in providing the resources needed and absorbing waste (Michael 
Borucke et al. 2012). Thus the role of sustainability as a long-term corporate 
strategy and as a common practice (Ioannou & Serafeim 2019) must become 
mainstream. 
This paper firstly discusses the need to develop the THRIVE framework and SPS 
tool to assist enterprises address the sustainability challenge. It then turns to the 
adopted approach, emanating from the school of design science.  Next it 
specifically outlines each aspect of the contribution made, building on established 
literature and impact studies. The conclusion encourages enterprises to use the 
THRIVE SPS tool to make positive change for the benefit of all humankind.  
PURPOSE 
As a transformative (Mertens 2007) conceptual study, this paper incorporates a 
comprehensive thematic analysis of the prevailing literature (theory) (Braun & 
Clarke 2006; Lapadat 2010; Maguire & Delahunt 2017) informed by several case 
studies (evidence) (Gomm et al. 2000; Johansson 2007; Perry 1998; Yin 2004). 
Secondary numerator performance data are derived from publicly published 
integrated corporate sustainability reports (e.g., Global Reporting Initiative 
Sustainability Reports, Carbon Disclosure Project datasets) and corporate websites 
by multinational enterprises worldwide (Szekely & Vom Brocke 2017).  
Denominator threshold and allocation data is sourced from global footprint 
initiatives (e.g., Global Footprint Network - GFN) and notable international 
agencies such as United Nations (UN), World Health Organization (WHO), and 
World Resources Institute (WRI). 
The unit of analysis is the business model (BM) (Teece 2017), although scholars do 
not uniformly agree on its definition (Zott et al. 2011).  Indicators are calculated 
from material topics selected from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards 
(GRI Material Topics) mapped to the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals (UN SDGs) (Linking the SDGs and GRI). Although studies show that GRI-based 
sustainability reports do not contain sufficient information needed for judging 

 
 
corporate sustainability performance or how quickly they are approaching 
sustainability (Barter 2015; Isaksson et al. 2009; McElroy 2017), the use of these 
material topics alongside the formulae and methods developed in this study 
allows for answering these questions. 
Enterprises recognize that they can only manage what is measured (Bansal & Song 
2017), and thus are often accused of not measuring what matters. A Haffar and 
Searcy (2018) review of 463 environmental indicators found none to be context-
based with a prevalence for self-referential indicators without context in many of 
the most commonly used reporting frameworks, such as the GRI and CDP. This 
study develops THRIVE framework and SPS tool which allows enterprises to 
publicly, transparently and accurately self-assess (without self-reference) their 
business model (BM) and corporate sustainability performance (impact) whilst 
adopting a context-based and science-based approach (SBTi Criteria and 
Recommendations  2018). This study thus supports enterprises by recognizing that 
innovations at the business model level (BMI) (Amit & Zott 2012; Foss & Saebi 
2016; Kiron et al. 2013) are a precursor to business models for sustainability 
(Schaltegger et al. 2012; Schaltegger et al. 2016b) i.e., sustainable business models 
(SBM) (Lüdeke-Freund et al. 2018a). 
Whilst some argue that harmonizing measures globally may go against enterprises 
promoting their own narratives or value creation stories (2013), THRIVE SPS tool 
provides a sophisticated and standardized, long sought after means of 
scientifically comparing corporate sustainability performances. The extended 
version of this study incorporates a discussion on the theory of change as it relates 
to business models (Andriopoulus & Lewis 2009; Upward 2013) to ensure long-
term systemic sustainable success by considering business enablers and 
moderators, such as leadership, culture, globalization, collaboration, risk, and 
regulation. 
APPROACH 
The study adopts a Systematic Design Science Research (DSR) approach (Aken 
2004; Gregor & Hevner 2013; Hevner 2007; Winter & Aier 2016), integrating a 
pluralistic interdisciplinary method (Redclift 1998; Shrivastava & Guimarães-Costa 
2016; von Bertalanffy 1968), acknowledging the role of societal and natural factors 
in accounting for sustainability issues (Persson et al. 2018), and the wicked nature 
of the projected phenomenon under investigation (Kurucz et al. 2017; Lüdeke-
Freund & Dembek 2017). Initially, a kernel theory based on first principles is 

 
 
advanced (Gregor & Hevner 2013; Gregor & Jones 2007), together with illustrative 
case studies and other public data, to explain and provide justification for the 
underlying approach (March & Vogus 2010; Winter & Aier 2016). Adopting a high-
level systems thinking perspective (Ackoff 1971; Gharajedaghi 2006; Williams et 
al. 2017), the study investigates corporate business models (BM) at the meso level, 
illuminating how novel business model design affects performance (Martin 2009; 
Zott & Amit 2007) and in support of the understanding that business strategy 
needs design and is about invention and thus requires innovation, as unguided 
novelty does not necessarily create value (Liedtka 2018). 
The flexibility of the holistic DSR approach aids in developing solutions to wicked 
problems (Foss & Saebi 2018) and best serves the corporate responsibility field 
(Visser 2012). Credibility is achieved by progressive focusing (Stake 1995) through 
prolonged engagement (Lincoln & Guba 1985), evaluation of multiple instances 
(Krefting 1991) and convergence of multiple secondary data sources 
(triangulation) (Knafl & Breitmayer 1989; Krefting 1991; Morse 1991), explicit 
documentation of choices made for included truths during discovery and 
evaluation (Guba 1981), maintenance of chain of evidence (Lincoln & Guba 1985) 
and narratives/reflexive analysis of records (Ruby 1980) thus improving 
trustworthiness. Furthermore, this experienced researcher, acting as the 
instrument, is careful to avoid confirmation bias by ensuring objectivity (Good & 
Brophy 1985), whilst dictating the framework (Agar 1986), showing expertise in 
the subject matter (Miles et al. 2014), demonstrating good investigative skills 
(Miles et al. 2014), strong interest in conceptual/theoretical knowledge (Miles et 
al. 2014), structural coherence (Guba 1981) and a multi-disciplinary approach 
(Miles et al. 2014). If possible, and time permitting the final stages involve the peer 
review by subject domain experts from around the world (Delphi Study) (Lincoln 
& Guba 1985). 
Transferability is improved through thick descriptions of cases (Geertz 1973), using 
selective maximum variation of nominated samples (Patton 2002), and 
longitudinal triangulation of data sources (Krefting 1991; Morse 1991) with explicit 
general research dimensions as indicated in Table 1, to aid in understanding the 
researcher’s worldview and approach (Krefting 1991); and includes an index of 
case studies reviewed (Krefting 1991). 

 
 
Table 1. Design Research Dimensions used by the Author in this study. 
As a transdisciplinary study, theoretical triangulation of perspectives is explicit 
(Knafl & Breitmayer 1989; Krefting 1991; Morse 1991). Together with audits, this 
ensures comparable conclusions, including a detailed step by step description of 
the thematic analysis (TA) (Braun & Clarke 2006; Fereday & Muir-Cochrane 2006) 
and case study (CS) (Baxter & Jack 2008; Perry 1998; Yin 2012) methods employed, 
thus ensuring dependability and confirmability (Kielhofner 1982). By using 
multiple illustrative example cases (Eisenhardt & Graebner 2007), latent 
interpreted themes (Ruby 1980) showing coherence (credibility) (Maguire & 
Delahunt 2017) and consistency (dependability) between the claims and the data 
(Javadi & Zarea 2016) further aid reflexivity (Hyett et al. 2014) through sense-
making and quantification of the thematic analysis (TA) during the creation of the 
set of patterns (Lapadat 2010). 
Thus, rigor and trustworthiness are achieved by way of addressing the above 
issues of credibility, transferability, dependability, and confirmability (Krefting 
1991).  Case study construct validity is achieved through the evaluation of multiple 
data sources (Baxter & Jack 2008; Creswell et al. 2011; Luck et al. 2005) coupled 
with the maintenance of the chain of evidence (Tranfield et al. 2003); and 
reliability by development of the thematic analysis (TA) database thereby further 
enhancing rigor (Healy & Perry 2000; Huberman & Miles 2002). Both theory and 
method triangulation is sought (Tobi & Kampen 2018).  Multiple secondary data 
sources are included in a codebook for consistency and transparency (Rowley 
2002), thus providing triangulation and verification (Hyett et al. 2014), and thereby 
improving the trustworthiness and credibility of the study. This study contributes 
to theory, methodology as well as empirically (Gregor & Hevner 2013).  
Design  Research Dimensions 
Worldview 
Ontology 
Epistemology 
Paradigm 
Atheist / Realist 
Rationalist 
Critical Realist 
Approach 
Design/Method 
Lens/Framework/Type 
Systematic Design Science / 
Thematic Analysis 
(Literature/Case Studies) 
Transformative / Exploratory / 
Observational 
General 
Logic 
Outcome 
Ethics 
Reductive 
Cross-Sectional 
Basic Applied 
Humanist 

 
 
CONTRIBUTION 
This study takes a strong sustainability (Bjørn & Røpke 2018; Landrum 2017; 
Neumayer 2010; Pelenc 2015), deep ecology (Naess 1973), multi-capital (Howitt 
& Thurm 2018; McElroy & Thomas 2015), values-based (Breuer & Lüdeke-Freund 
2017) and science-based stance (SBTi 2018) with material topics evaluated within 
context (Faber & Hadders 2015; McElroy 2013, 2017; McElroy et al. 2008; UN 
Environmental Program 2015) i.e., based on inner and outer limits and allocations 
(Raworth 2012; Reporting 3.0 2018). The Holistic Regenerative Innovative Value 
Enterprise (THRIVE) framework and associated Sustainability Performance 
Scorecard (SPS) tool (Table 2) resulting from this study, categorically identifies 
successful sustainable business models (Bocken et al. 2014; Fellmann et al. 2018; 
Lüdeke-Freund et al. 2018b; Remane et al. 2017) thereby encouraging enterprises 
to adopt sustainable practices (Evans et al. 2017; Pansera & Randles 2013).  A 
comprehensive literature review reveals this is the first study to envision 
showcasing a quantitative sustainability performance score alongside categorical 
business model pattern identifications. 
THRIVE framework provides a methodological contribution to a strongly 
sustainable future (Heikkurinen 2019; Stal 2018) as well as forming the basis of 
practical practitioner’s tools such as the THRIVE SPS. The THRIVE SPS tool assesses 
the corporate sustainability performance of enterprises at the business model 
level (Evans et al. 2017) and identifies which category of business models or 
strategies are more successful than others. THRIVE tools are licensed under 
creative commons, published in journals and made available to academia, 
business leaders and the public (Creative Commons Website).  
 

 
 
The THRIVE SPS echoes initiatives by the newly formed World Benchmarking 
Alliance (WBA) (Oppenheim et al. 2017) and their most recent development of the 
Seafood Stewardship Index (WBA 2018). Their sustainability ranked ‘league’ tables 
aim to closely align performance with the SDGs. There are other initiatives or case 
studies that report on corporate sustainability performance (Morioka et al. 2016), 
although not categorizing based on BM. These include Climate Counts (Climate 
Counts 2013), The Wikirate Project (Wikirate 2018), S&P Global Trucost (Aldhous 
2019); the individual ExxonMobil Integrated Report (Eccles & Krzus 2018); and 
GIIN: Impact Investing in SEA (Global Impact Investing Network 2018) which 
focuses on a whole country or sector. A plethora of individual self-assessment 
tools exist, however most notable are the strongly sustainable F2B2 (Kendall & 
Willard 2015) and the VMDBee tools (Man 2019). In a number of other efforts that 
rank the sustainability performance of enterprises, there is a lack of 
methodological transparency or in some cases the source data set may be 
proprietary (thus subject to bias), as in the case of RobecoSAM (RobecoSAM List 
of Companies), the ‘big 4’ accounting and consulting firms, and Corporate Knights 
(Corporate Knights 2018 Global 100 Issue). Some, like TruePrice (TruePrice 
Website) evaluate the specific ‘trucost’ of raw materials in set regions only, such 
as coffee, palm oil, milk, and bananas. And finally, in some cases, sustainability 
reports simply reflect the level of disclosure (e.g., DJSI) (López et al. 2007) without 
adequately addressing each material topic (UN Environmental Program 2015; 
THRIVE 
Rank Enterprise 
Name 
Industry  
Classification 
BM  
pattern 
SP  
scorecard 
Sustainability 
 Performance 
 Scorecard 
1 
Enterprise A  
Pharmaceuticals, 
Biotechnology and Life 
Sciences 
P6.1 
0.503 
2 
Enterprise B 
Technology Hardware 
and Equipment 
P11.1 
0.625 
3 
Enterprise C 
Consumer Durables, 
Household and Personal 
Products 
P8.4 
0.768 
4 
Enterprise D 
Food and Beverage 
Processing 
P7.4 
0.891 
5 
Enterprise E 
Electric Utilities and 
Independent Power 
Producer 
P4.3 
1.106 
6 
Enterprise F 
Banks, Diverse Financials, 
Insurance 
P7.1 
1.282 
 
** For illustration purposes only **   SPS: 0 <= score <= 1 means strongly sustainable enterprise, score > 1 means 
NOT a strongly sustainable enterprise.  Context-based Sustainability Performance Scorecard (SPS) values are 
calculated based on figures from public sources covering a range of material topics. Business model (BM) patterns 
from Lüdeke-Freund et al. (2018). Industry classification is derived from GRI Business Activity Groups (BAG). 
Italicized values are masked and anonymized. 
Table 2. Sustainability Performance Scorecard (SPS). Sample of an instantiation. 

 
 
WBCSD 2017a) nor attempting to systematically measure the actual sustainability 
performance of the enterprises concerned (Lydenberg et al. 2010). 
THRIVE SPS assists enterprises and consumers at large with a better understanding 
of their impact based on its actual footprint (Rees 2000) across all three pillars of 
sustainability: the economic, social and environmental (Elkington 1997). This is 
achieved by summation of each quotient based on the enterprise’s impact on each 
material topic, proportional to its allocation (Daly 1992). Each quotient is 
calculated as the actual impact (numerator) divided by the allotted impact 
(denominator) multiplied by its weight (Figure 1). It is argued by many as to what 
these weights (Bjørn & Røpke 2018) and normalizations (Huang et al. 2015) ought 
to be across sectors, industries, and pillars; with some arguing these should be 
simply omitted and others that they ought to be industry or sector-specific (Eccles 
2012; Sironen et al. 2014). THRIVE SPS model supports any and all such variations 
in its calculation engine, enabling the use of material topic weights as triggers for 
transition. For example, weights may be employed to model the introduction of a 
government tax on certain goods or services, or be used as a catalyst to encourage 
enterprises to switch to more renewable resources by attributing higher weights 
(Ioannou & Serafeim 2019) to certain material topics. Whilst THRIVE SPS engine 
supports multiple weights and thus algorithms, the key to its usefulness is 
consistency of method across material topics in order to effect fair comparisons 
(IIRC 2013). 
 
SP score =  1
𝑛 × ෍
𝑤𝑖 ×  | xi
ei
|
n
i = 1
               where 0 ≤xi
ei
≤1   for strong sustainability,  and 
 
𝑤𝑖 
is the weight applied to each specific material topic i 
(i.e., usually 1; e.g., set to over 1 to model legislative  
changes affecting topic)  
xi 
actual impact by the Enterprise on material topic i 
(i.e., measured based on true performance) 
ei 
allocated footprint for material topic i  
(e.g., based on Global Footprint Network datasets) 
i 
material topic under evaluation  
(e.g., Diversity and Equal Opportunity) 
n 
total number of material topics  
(e.g., 36 for GRI Standard or 17 for SDGs) 
Figure 1. Formula for the calculation of the sustainability performance score as detailed in this study. 

 
 
Numerator values are based on actual performance relative to the inner 
(threshold) and outer (ceiling) measurement, as espoused by GTAC (Reporting 3.0 
2018) and similar groups, being aware of congruency in units of measure and the 
related issue of normalization across all material topics. In some cases where 
global data is missing, allocations may be based on gross domestic product (GDP), 
even though this is not the best method (Faria & Labutong 2015), and subject to 
refinement based on a more meaningful measure. Denominator data is sourced 
from the open data and method platform provider Global Footprint Network’s 
(GFN) (Global Footprint Network Homepage  2019) ‘measure what you treasure’ 
service, or from other notable and reputable sources: United Nations (UN), World 
Health Organization (WHO), Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development (OECD), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), World Resources Institute 
(WRI), Eurostat and others. 
The support for granularity within THRIVE framework means that the SPS 
dashboard may be used to see performance on an international, national or sector 
by sector basis or even year-on-year within an enterprise or cumulative within a 
sector. Together with the custom produced ‘Ciambella Chart’ (Figure 2), it 
provides a quick and easy direct visualization of an enterprise’s sustainable impact 
across GRI topics or SDGs goals (Linking the SDGs and GRI). Thus, unlike the 
sustainable value add (SVA) method (Figge & Hahn 2005) based exclusively on GDP 
which fails to measure the actual sustainability performance of an organization 
within context (Huang et al. 2015) - much less from a strong sustainability 
perspective - the THRIVE SPS method is similar to the approach advocated by the 
multi-capital scorecard (MCS) (McElroy & Thomas 2015) and sustainability 
quotient for social footprints (McElroy et al. 2008) where a clear absolute binary 
identification of ‘is sustainable’ (green) or ‘not sustainable’ (red) is achieved.  
Whilst this study advocates the use of the GRI material topics (GRI Material 
Topics), Bailey and Eccles (2018) argue for using the sustainability factors as 
identified by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) mapped to the 

 
 
objectives of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). 
Moreover, whilst there are no set metrics specified, the suggested framework 
agnostic Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN) IRIS+ (IRIS. 2019) metrics provide 
data clarity and comparability, across the 169 targets, and 230 measurable 
indicators of the SDGs (2019, 2019). Whilst the specifics of the IRIS+ metrics are 
outside the scope of this paper, business leaders may use these internally 
consistent IRIS+ metrics to manage what is measured (Prusak 2019), and moreover 
ensure they are measuring what matters, within context, using science-based 
targets (Assessing Corporate Emissions Performance through the Lens of Climate 
Science  2013; SBTi Criteria and Recommendations  2018; UN Environmental 
Program 2015) and uniform units of measure (IIRC 2013) thus ensuring fair 
comparisons.  
CONCLUSION 
The strong theoretical basis employed by the framework together with public 
domain science-based datasets ensures a broadly useful THRIVE platform and SPS 
tool that can be used by several actors: consumers, business analysts, researchers, 
government and business leaders. For example, consumers may use the system to 
decide which enterprise they should transact with; business analysts to guide 
enterprises in engaging in certain activities or strategies; researchers to analyze 
trends and effectiveness of business models for sustainability; governments to 
forecast the effects of legislative actions; and by business leaders pursuing a 
competitive advantage. 
 
Figure 2. Sample Ciambella Chart developed by the Author. 

 
 
Designed to provoke transformative change, THRIVE SPS ranking tool provides a 
transparent public platform to encourage enterprises to embrace the circular 
economy (Geissdoerfer et al. 2017; WBCSD 2017b; Webster 2015) through 
contributing their fair share. It achieves this by arming business leaders with the 
knowledge to actively compete and excel among their peers through alignment 
with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN Global Compact 
2018) in order to do good to do well. It also empowers individuals with the ability 
to actively stimulate competition among enterprises for greater global shared 
value creation and collaborative peaceful partnerships for people, planet, profit 
with purpose and prosperity (Kolk et al. 2017). 
Future 
As tri-impact integrated reporting (<IR>) becomes the norm featuring 
comprehensive and complex levels of analysis and automation (Lai et al. 2016; 
Lydenberg et al. 2010), newer technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI) , Big Data 
and Analytics (BDA) (Eccles & Krzus 2018) brings us a step closer to the next leap 
towards dynamic Integrated Report Generator Tools (IRTG). These technologies 
are ultimately only as good as the underlying frameworks that dictate how data is 
to be compiled, reports constructed and as accurate and reliable as the source 
datasets are. This study serves to bridge this gap by contributing to the framework 
and toolsets necessary to inform these comparisons. Thus, business 
transformation for sustainability benefits from the more sophisticated THRIVE SPS 
engine, featuring granular and accurate denominator data and integrated 
reporting at the global macro level and interactive real-time querying of an 
enterprise’s sustainability performance, truly closing the loop on sustainability and 
the circular economy.  
REFERENCES 
Ackoff, RL (1971), 'Towards a system of systems concepts', Management Science, 
vol. 17, no. 11, pp. 661-671.  
Adams, R, Jeanrenaud, S, Bessant, J & Overy, P (2015), 'Sustainability-oriented 
Innovation: A Systematic Review', International Journal of Management 
Reviews, vol. 18, pp. 18-205.  
Agar, MH (1986), Speaking of ethnography, vol. 2, Sage.  
Aken, JEv (2004), 'Management Research Based on the Paradigm of the Design 
Sciences: The Quest for Field-Tested and Grounded Technological Rules', 
Journal of Management Studies, vol. 41, no. 2, pp. 219-246.  

 
 
Aldhous, P (2019), Do You Know Which Companies Are Tackling Climate Change, 
Buzzfeed, viewed 26/04/2019.  
Amit, R & Zott, C (2012), 'Business Model Innovation: Creating value in times of 
change', MIT Sloan Management Review, vol. 53, no. 3, pp. 41-49.  
Andriopoulus, C & Lewis, MW (2009), 'Exploitation-Exploration Tensions and 
Organizational Ambidexterity: Managing Paradoxes of Innovation', 
Organization 
Science, 
vol. 
20, 
no. 
4, 
pp. 
696-717. 
<http://www.jstor.org/stable/25614688> Assessing Corporate Emissions 
Performance through the Lens of Climate Science,  (2013), A Collaborative 
Study between Climate Counts and the Center for Sustainable Organizations. 
Bailey, J & Eccles, R (2018), Interview: Investing for Returns Can Support 
Sustainable Development, Insights, Neuberger Berman. 
Bansal, P (2019), 'Sustainable Development in an Age of Disruption', Academy of 
Management 
Discoveries, 
vol. 
5, 
no. 
1, 
pp. 
8-12. 
<https://journals.aom.org/doi/abs/10.5465/amd.2019.0001> 
Bansal, P & Song, H-C (2017), 'Similar But Not the Same: Differentiating Corporate 
Sustainability from Corporate Responsibility', Academy of Management 
Annals, 
vol. 
11, 
no. 
1, 
pp. 
105-149. 
<https://aom.org/uploadedFiles/Publications/Annals/ANNALS-2015-
0095.R5.pdf> 
Barter, N (2015), 'W(h)ither Ecology? The Triple Bottom Line, The Global Reporting 
Initiative, and Corporate Sustainability Reporting', Social and Environmental 
Accountability Journal, vol. 35, no. 3, pp. 197-198.  
Baue, B & Thurm, R (2018), Reporting 3.0 - Context for Thriveable Transformation, 
Reporting 3.0. 
Baxter, P & Jack, S (2008), 'Qualitative Case Study  Methodology: Study Design 
and Implementation for Novice Researchers', The Qualitative Report, vol. 13, 
no. 4, p. 2. <http://nsuworks.nova.edu/tqr/vol13/iss4/2> 
Bjørn, A & Røpke, I (2018), 'What does it really mean to be a strongly sustainable 
company? – A response to Nikolaou and Tsalis', Journal of Cleaner 
Production, vol. 198, pp. 208-214.  
Bocken, NMP, Short, SW, Rana, P & Evans, S (2014), 'A literature and practice 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes', Journal of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
vol. 
65, 
pp. 
42-56. 
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652613008032> 
Braun, M, Latham, S & Cannatelli, B (2019), 'Strategy and business models: why 
winning companies need both', Journal of Business Strategy.  
Braun, V & Clarke, V (2006), 'Using thematic analysis in psychology', Qualitative 
Research in Psychology, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 77-101.  

 
 
Breuer, H & Lüdeke-Freund, F (2017), 'Values-Based Network and Business Model 
Innovation', International Journal of Innovation Management, vol. 21, no. 3, 
p. 35.  
Broman, G, Robèrt, K-H, Collins, TJ, Basile, G, Baumgartner, RJ, Larsson, T, 
Huisingh, D, Institutionen för strategisk hållbar, u, Blekinge Tekniska, H, 
Fakulteten för, t & Institutionen för, m (2017), 'Science in support of 
systematic leadership towards sustainability', Journal of Cleaner Production, 
vol. 140, pp. 1-9.  
Casadesus-Masanell, R & Ricart, JE (2010), 'From Strategy to Business Models and 
onto Tactics', Long Range Planning, vol. 43, no. 2-3, pp. 195-215.  
Clauss, T (2016), 'Measuring business model innovation conceptualization, scale 
development, and proof of performance', R & D Management.  
Climate Counts (2013), Assessing Corporate Emissions Performance Through the 
Lens of Climate Science, Climate Counts and Center for Sustainable 
Organizations. 
Costanza, R & Patten, BC (1995), 'Defining and predicting sustainability', 
Ecological Economics, vol. 15, pp. 193-196.  
Creswell, JW, Klassen, AC, Clark, VLP & Smith, KC (2011), Best Practices for Mixed 
Methods Research in the Health Sciences. 
Daly, HE (1992), 'Allocation, distribution, and scale: towards an economics that is 
efficient, just, and sustainable', Ecological Economics, vol. 6, pp. 185-193.  
Eccles, RG (2012), 'The Need for Sector-Specific Materiality and Sustainability 
Reporting Standards', Journal of Applied Corporate Finance., vol. 24, no. 2.  
Eccles, RG & Krzus, MP (2018), Constructing ExxonMobil's First Integrated Report 
An Experiment,  <http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3145369>. 
Eisenhardt, KM & Graebner, ME (2007), 'Theory Building from Cases: 
Opportunities and Challenges', The Academy of Management Journal, vol. 
50, 
no. 
1, 
pp. 
25-32. 
<http://www.jstor.org.ezproxy.usq.edu.au/stable/20159839> 
Elkington, J (1997), Cannibals with Forks: The Triple Bottom Line of 21st Century 
Business.  
Elkington, J (2004), 'Enter the Triple Bottom Line', in The triple bottom line, does 
it all add up?: assessing the sustainability of business and CSR. 
Elkington, J (2018), '25 Years Ago I Coined the Phrase “Triple Bottom Line.” Here’s 
Why It’s Time to Rethink It.',  2018.  21/08/2018,  Available from: 
<https://hbr.org/2018/06/25-years-ago-i-coined-the-phrase-triple-bottom-
line-heres-why-im-giving-up-on-it>  

 
 
Evans, S, Vladimirova, D, Holgado, M, Fossen, KV, Yang, M, Silva, EA & Barlow, 
CY (2017), 'Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a Unified 
Perspective for Creation of Sustainable Business Models', Business Strategy 
and the Environment.  
Faber, NR & Hadders, H (2015), 'Rethinking the social contract: measuring and 
reporting sustainability in context', in Global Cleaner Production & 
Sustainable Consumption Conference, Elsevier Science, Sitges, Spain,  
Faria, P & Labutong, N (2015), A Review of Climate Science Based GHG Target 
Setting Methodologies for Companies, CDP. 
Fellmann, M, Koschmider, A, Laue, R, Schoknecht, A & Vetter, A (2018), 'Business 
process model patterns: state-of-the-art, research classification and 
taxonomy', Business Process Management Journal.  
Fereday, J & Muir-Cochrane, E (2006), 'Demonstrating Rigor Using Thematic 
Analysis: A Hybrid Approach of Inductive and Deductive Coding and Theme 
Development', international journal of qualitative methods, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 
80-92.  
Figge, F & Hahn, T (2005), 'The Cost of Sustainability Capital and the Creation of 
Sustainable Value by Companies', Journal of Industrial Ecology, vol. 9, no. 4.  
Foss, NJ & Saebi, T (2016), 'Fifteen Years of Research on Business Model 
Innovation', Journal of Management, vol. 43, no. 1, pp. 200-227.  
Foss, NJ & Saebi, T (2018), 'Business models and business model innovation: 
Between wicked and paradigmatic problems', Long Range Planning, vol. 51, 
no. 1, pp. 9-21.  
Geertz, C (1973), Chapter 1: Thick Description: Towards an Interpretative Theory 
of 
Culture, 
Basic 
Books, 
Inc., 
Publishers, 
NY. 
<https://www.researchgate.net/publication/233821164_Thick_Description
_Toward_an_Interpretive_Theory_of_Culture> 
Geissdoerfer, M, Vladimirova, D & Evans, S (2018), 'Sustainable business model 
innovation: A review', Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 198, pp. 401-416.  
Geissdoerfer, M, Savaget, P, Bocken, NMP & Hultink, EJ (2017), 'The Circular 
Economy – A new sustainability paradigm?', Journal of Cleaner Production, 
vol. 143, pp. 757-768.  
Gharajedaghi, J (2006), Managing Chaos and Complexity: A Platform for Designing 
Business Architecture - 2nd Ed, Butterworth-Heinemann is an imprint of 
Elsevier.  
Gill, TG & Hevner, AR (2013), 'A Fitness-Utility Model for Design Science Research', 
ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 1-
24. Global Footprint Network Homepage,  (2019), viewed 10/5/2019.  
Global Impact Investing Network (2018), The landscape for impact investing in 
South East Asia, GIIN. 

 
 
Gomm, R, Hammersley, M & Foster, P (2000), Case Study Method: Key Issues, Key 
Texts, annotat;1; edn, Sage Publications, London, United Kingdom.  
Good, TL & Brophy, JE (1985), School Effects. Occasional Paper No. 77. 
Gregor, S & Jones, D (2007), 'The Anatomy of a Design Theory', Journal of the 
Association for Information Systems, vol. 8, no. 5, pp. 312-335.  
Gregor, S & Hevner, AR (2013), 'Positioning and presenting design science 
research for maximum impact', MISQ, vol. 37, no. 2, pp. 337-355.  
Guba, EG (1981), 'Criteria for assessing the trustworthiness of naturalistic 
inquiries', Educational Communication and Technology Journal, vol. 29, no. 
2, p. 75. <https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02766777> 
Haffar, M & Searcy, C (2018), 'The use of context-based environmental indicators 
in corporate reporting', Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 192, pp. 496-513.  
Healy, M & Perry, C (2000), 'Comprehensive criteria to judge validity and reliability 
of qualitative research within the realism paradigm', Qualitative Market 
Research: An International Journal, vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 118-126. 
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/13522750010333861> 
Heikkurinen, B (2019), Strongly Sustainable Societies Organising Human Activities 
on a Hot and Full Earth, Routledge, NYC.  
Hevner, AR (2007), 'A Three Cycle View of Design Science Research', Scandinavian 
Journal of Information Systems, vol. 19, no. 2.  
Holmberg, J & Robèrt, K-H (2000), 'Backcasting a framework for strategic 
planning', International Journal of Sustainable Development & World 
Ecology, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 291-308.  
Howitt, R & Thurm, R (2018), From Monocapitalism to Multicapitalism 21st 
Century 
System 
Value 
Creation, 
<https://blogs.thomsonreuters.com/sustainability/2018/06/07/executive-
perspective-from-monocapitalism-to-multicapitalism-21st-century-system-
value> 
Huang, L, Wu, J & Yan, L (2015), 'Defining and measuring urban sustainability: a 
review of indicators', Landscape Ecology, vol. 30, pp. 1175-1193.  
Huberman, A & Miles, M (2002), 'Understanding and Validity in Qualitative 
Research', in The Qualitative Researcher's Companion, ch 2, pp. 36-64. 
Hyett, N, Kenny, A & Dickson-Swift, V (2014), 'Methodology or method? A critical 
review of qualitative case study reports', International Journal of Qualitative 
Studies 
on 
Health 
and 
Well-being, 
vol. 
9, 
p. 
23606. 
<https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24809980> 
IIRC (2013), Capitals: Background Paper for <IR>, ACCA NBA. 
Ioannou, I & Serafeim, G (2019), Corporate Sustainability & Strategy, Harvard 
Business School,  

 
 
IRIS. (2019), Impact Reporting and Investment Standards plus, viewed 17/05/19. 
<https://iris.thegiin.org/standards/> 
Isaksson, R, Mi Dahlgaard‐Park, S & Steimle, U (2009), 'What does GRI‐reporting 
tell us about corporate sustainability?', The TQM Journal, vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 
168-181.  
Javadi, M & Zarea, K (2016), 'Understanding Thematic Analysis and its Pitfall', 
Journal of Client Care, vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 33-39.  
Johansson, R (2007), 'Case Study Methodology', Open House International, vol. 32, 
no. 3. <http://connection.ebscohost.com/c/articles/28743028/case-study-
methodology> 
Kendall, G & Willard, B (2015), Future-fit Business Benchmark, Future-Fit 
Foundation. 
Kielhofner, G (1982), 'Qualitative research: Part one paradigmatic grounds and 
issues of reliability and validity', The Occupational Therapy Journal of 
Research, vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 67-79.  
Kiron, D, Kruschwitz, N, Haanaes, K, Reeves, M & Goh, E (2013), 'The innovation 
bottom line - How companies that see sustainability as both a necessity and 
an opportunity, and change their business models in response, are finding 
success.', MIT Sloan Management Review and the Boston Consulting Group.  
Knafl, K & Breitmayer, B (1989), Qualitative nursing research: a contemporary 
dialogue, Aspen Publishers, Inc, MD.  
Kolk, A, Kourula, A & Pisani, N (2017), 'Multinational Enterprises and the 
Sustainable Development Goals What do we know and how to proceed', 
Transnational Corporations, vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 9-32.  
Krefting, L (1991), 'Rigor in Qualitative Research: The Assessment of 
Trustworthiness', The American Journal of Occupational Therapy, vol. 45, no. 
3.  
Kurucz, EC, Colbert, BA, Lüdeke-Freund, F, Upward, A & Willard, B (2017), 
'Relational leadership for strategic sustainability: practices and capabilities 
to advance the design and assessment of sustainable business models', 
Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 140, Part 1, pp. 189-204. 
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652616301561> 
Laasch, O (2017), 'How the Leopard Got Its Spots: Commercial and Responsibility 
Logics in FTSE100 Business Models', in Academy of Management 
Proceedings,  London,  
Lai, A, Melloni, G & Stacchezzini, R (2016), 'Corporate Sustainable Development: 
is ‘Integrated Reporting’ a Legitimation Strategy?', Business Strategy and the 
Environment, vol. 25, no. 3, pp. 165-177.  

 
 
Landrum, NE (2017), 'Stages of Corporate Sustainability: Integrating the Strong 
Sustainability Worldview', Organization & Environment, vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 
287-313.  
Lapadat, JC (2010), 'Thematic Analysis', in Encyclopedia of Case Study Research, ch 
4. 
Liedtka, J (2018), 'Why Design Thinking Works', Harvard Business Review.  
Lincoln, YS & Guba, EG (1985), Naturalistic inquiry, Sage Publications, Beverly Hills, 
California.  
López, MV, Garcia, A & Rodriguez, L (2007), 'Sustainable Development and 
Corporate Performance: A Study Based on the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index', Journal of Business Ethics, vol. 75, no. 3, pp. 285-300.  
Luck, L, Jackson, D & Usher, K (2005), 'Case study: a bridge across the paradigms', 
Nursing Inquiry, vol. 13, no. 2, pp. 103-109.  
Lüdeke-Freund, F & Dembek, K (2017), 'Sustainable business model research and 
practice: Emerging field or passing fancy?', Journal of Cleaner Production, 
vol. 168, pp. 1668-1678.  
Lüdeke-Freund, F, Bohnsack, R, Breuer, H & Massa, L (2018a), 'Research on 
Sustainable Business Model Patterns', in Sustainable Business Model 
Innovation, Palgrave. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F, Carroux, S, Joyce, A, Massa, L & Breuer, H (2018b), 'The 
sustainable business model pattern taxonomy—45 patterns to support 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation', Sustainable Production 
and Consumption, vol. 15, pp. 145-162.  
Lydenberg, S, Rogers, J & Wood, D (2010), From Transparency to Performance - 
Industry-Based Sustainability Reporting on Key Issues, The Hauser Center for 
non-profit Organizations at Harvard University & Initiative for Responsible 
Investment. 
Maguire, M & Delahunt, B (2017), 'Doing a Thematic Analysis: A Practical, Step-
by-Step Guide for Learning and Teaching Scholars', All Ireland Journal of 
Teaching and Learning in Higher Education, vol. 8, no. 3.  
Man, Hd (2019), VMDBee Website, viewed 09/05/2019. <https://vdmbee.com/> 
March, ST & Vogus, TJ (2010), 'Design science in the management disciplines', in 
Design research in information systems, Springer, pp. 195-208. 
Martin, RL (2009), The Design of Business Why Design Thinking Is the Next 
Competitive Advantage, Harvard Business Press.  
McElroy, M (2013), Corporate Sustainability Management A Context-Based 
Approach. 

 
 
McElroy, M (2017), 'Is It Possible That GRI Has Never Really Been About 
Sustainability 
Reporting 
at 
All?', 
 
2018. 
 
Available 
from: 
<https://www.sustainablebrands.com/news_and_views/new_metrics/mar
k_mcelroy/it_possible_gri_has_never_really_been_about_sustainability_r> 
[Accessed  21/08/2018]. 
McElroy, MW & Thomas, MP (2015), 'The MultiCapital Scorecard', Sustainability 
Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 425-438.  
McElroy, MW, Jorna, RJ & van Engelen, J (2008), 'Sustainability quotients and the 
social footprint', Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental 
Management, vol. 15, no. 4, pp. 223-234.  
Melkonyan, A, Gottschalk, D & V.P, VK (2017), 'Sustainability assessments and 
their implementation possibilities within the business models of companies', 
Sustainable Production and Consumption, vol. 12, pp. 1-15.  
Mertens, DM (2007), 'Transformative Paradigm', Journal of Mixed Methods 
Research, vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 212-225.  
Michael Borucke, David Moore, Gemma Cranston, Kyle Gracey, Katsunori Iha, 
Joy Larson, Elias Lazarus, Juan Carlos Morales, Mathis Wackernagel & Galli, 
A (2012), 'Accounting for demand and supply of the Biosphere’s 
regenerative capacity: the National Footprint Accounts’ underlying 
methodology and framework', Ecological Indicators, vol. 24, no. 2013, pp. 
518-533.  
Miles, MB, Huberman, AM & Saldana, J (2014), Qualitative data analysis: a 
methods sourcebook, Third edn, Sage Publications, Inc, Thousand Oaks, 
Califorinia.  
Morioka, SN, Evans, S & Carvalho, MMd (2016), 'Sustainable Business Model 
Innovation: Exploring Evidences in Sustainability Reporting', Procedia CIRP, 
vol. 
40, 
pp. 
659-667. 
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212827116001669> 
Morse, JM (1991), 'Approaches to qualitative-quantitative methodological 
triangulation', 
Nursing 
research, 
vol. 
40, 
no. 
2, 
p. 
120. 
<https://dx.doi.org/10.1097/00012272-199503000-00005> 
Naess, A (1973), 'The shallow and the deep long-range ecology movement. A 
summary.', Inquiry, vol. 16, pp. 95-100.  
Najam, A, Bergesen, HO, Parmann, G & Thommessen, ØB (2000), World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development: The Greening of Business or a 
Greenwash?, Earthscan Publications, London. <http://www.wbcsd.org/> 
Neumayer, E (2010), 'Weak Versus Strong Sustainability: Exploring the Limits of 
Two Opposing Paradigms', Journal of Australian Political Economy.  

 
 
Oppenheim, J, Boyd, O, Campbell, G, Dewan, N, Evans, A, George, M, George, S, 
Klintworth, G, Kortenhorst, A, McLeod, D, Potocnik, J, Sawers, C & Shah, A 
(2017), Better Business, Better World, The report of the Business & 
Sustainable Development Commission. 
Pansera, DM & Randles, PS (2013), Innovation for sustainability (I4S): Final Case 
Studies Report, Academy of Business in Society, MIT Sloan Management 
Review. 
Patton, MQ (2002), Qualitative research and evaluation methods, 3rd edn, Sage 
Publications, Thousand Oaks, Calif.  
Pelenc, J (2015), Weak Sustainability versus Strong Sustainability. 
Perry, C (1998), 'Processes of a case study methodology for postgraduate research 
in marketing', European Journal of Marketing, vol. 32, no. 9/10, pp. 785-802. 
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/03090569810232237> 
Persson, J, Hornborg, A, Olsson, L & Thorén, H (2018), 'Toward an alternative 
dialogue between the social and natural sciences', Ecology and Society, vol. 
23, no. 4.  
Pries-Heje, J & Baskerville, RL (2014), 'Management Design Theories', in HAL, pp. 
277-296. 
Prusak, L (2019), What Can’t Be Measured, viewed 10/5/2019.  
Raworth, K (2012), A safe and just space for humanity: can we live within the 
doughnut. 
Redclift, M (1998), 'Dances with wolves Interdisciplinary research on the global 
environment', Global Environmental Change, vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 177-182.  
Rees, WE (2000), 'Eco-footprint analysis: merits and brickbats', Ecological 
Economics, vol. 32, pp. 371-374.  
Remane, G, Hanelt, A, Tesch, JF & Kolbe, LM (2017), 'The Business Model Pattern 
Database — a Tool for Systematic Business Model Innovation', International 
Journal of Innovation Management, vol. 21, no. 01.  
Reporting 3.0 2018, An Invitation to Support the Formation of a Global Thresholds 
& Allocations Council. 
Robèrt, K-H, Broman, GI & Basile, G (2013), 'Analyzing the Concept of Planetary 
Boundaries from a Strategic Sustainability Perspective: How Does Humanity 
Avoid Tipping the Planet?', Ecology and Society, vol. 18, no. 2. 
<http://dx.doi.org/10.5751/ES-05336-180205> 
Rockstrom, J (2009), 'Planetary Boundaries Exploring the Safe Operating Space for 
Humanity', Nature, vol. 461, no. 24.  
Rowley, J (2002), 'Using case studies in research', Management Research News, 
vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 16-27.  

 
 
Ruby, J (1980), 'Exposing yourself: reflexivity, anthropology, and film', Semiotica, 
vol. 30, no. 1-2, pp. 153-180.  
SBTi (2018), The IPCC 1.5°C report and what it means for science-based targets. 
SBTi Criteria and Recommendations,  (2018), Science Based Targets. 
Schaltegger, S, Freund, FL & Hansen, EG (2012), 'Business cases for sustainability: 
the role of business model innovation for corporate sustainability', 
International Journal of Innovation and Sustainable Development, vol. 6, no. 
2.  
Schaltegger, S, Hansen, EG & Lüdeke-Freund, F (2016a), 'Business Models for 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues', Organization 
& 
Environment, 
vol. 
29, 
no. 
1, 
pp. 
3-10. 
<https://www.researchgate.net/publication/281812267> 
Schaltegger, S, Lüdeke-Freund, F & Hansen, EG (2016b), 'Business Models for 
Sustainability: A Co-Evolutionary Analysis of Sustainable Entrepreneurship, 
Innovation, and Transformation', Organization & Environment, vol. 29, no. 
3, pp. 264-289. <http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/1086026616633272> 
Shrivastava, P & Guimarães-Costa, N (2016), 'Achieving environmental 
sustainability: The case for multi-layered collaboration across disciplines and 
players', Technological Forecasting and Social Change, vol. 116, pp. 340-346.  
Sironen, S, Seppälä, J & Leskinen, P (2014), 'Towards more non-compensatory 
sustainable society index', Environment, Development and Sustainability, 
vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 587-621.  
Stake, RE (1995), The art of case study research, Sage Publications, Thousand 
Oaks. 
<https://www.slideshare.net/pavan7soni/the-art-of-case-study-
research-by-robert-stake-1995> 
Stal, H (2018), 'Business Models based on Strongly Sustainable Entrepreneurship 
- Insights from a Systematic Literature Review'. 
Steffen, W, Rockstrom, J, Richardson, K, Lenton, TM, Folke, C, Liverman, D, 
Summerhayes, CP, Barnosky, AD, Cornell, SE, Crucifix, M, Donges, JF, 
Fetzer, I, Lade, SJ, Scheffer, M, Winkelmann, R & Schellnhuber, HJ (2018), 
'Trajectories of the Earth System in the Anthropocene', Proc Natl Acad Sci 
USA, 
vol. 
115, 
no. 
33, 
pp. 
8252-8259. 
<https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30082409> 
Szekely, N & Vom Brocke, J (2017), 'What can we learn from corporate 
sustainability reporting? Deriving propositions for research and practice 
from over 9,500 corporate sustainability reports published between 1999 
and 2015 using topic modelling technique', PLoS One, vol. 12, no. 4, p. 
e0174807. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28403158> 
Teece, DJ (2017), 'Business models and dynamic capabilities', Long Range 
Planning.  

 
 
Thurm, R (2016), Integral Thinking Booklet V1.2, A|Head, Netherlands. 
Tobi, H & Kampen, JK (2018), 'Research design: the methodology for 
interdisciplinary research framework', Qual Quant, vol. 52, no. 3, pp. 1209-
1225. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29674791> 
Tranfield, D, Denyer, D & Smart, P (2003), 'Towards a Methodology for 
Developing Evidence-Informed Management Knowledge by Means of 
Systematic Review', British Journal of Management, vol. 14, pp. 207-222.  
UN Environmental Program (2015), Raising the Bar - Advancing Environmental 
Disclosure in Sustainability Reporting, UN. 
UN Global Compact (2018), Integrating the SDGs into corporate reporting: A 
practical guide, United Nations Global Compact. 
Upward, A (2013), 'Towards an ontology and canvas for strongly sustainable 
business models: A systemic design science exploration'. 
Upward, A & Jones, P (2016), 'An Ontology for Strongly Sustainable Business 
Models: Defining an Enterprise Framework Compatible with Natural and 
Social Science', Organization & Environment, vol. 29, no. 1, pp. 97-123.  
Van Cauwenbergh, N, Biala, K, Bielders, C, Brouckaert, V, Franchois, L, Garcia 
Cidad, V, Hermy, M, Mathijs, E, Muys, B, Reijnders, J, Sauvenier, X, Valckx, 
J, Vanclooster, M, Van der Veken, B, Wauters, E & Peeters, A (2007), 
'SAFE—A hierarchical framework for assessing the sustainability of 
agricultural systems', Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment, vol. 120, no. 
2-4, pp. 229-242.  
Visser, W (2012), The Future of CSR: Towards Transformative CSR, or CSR 2.0. 
von Bertalanffy, L (1968), 'General Systems Theory - Foundation, Development 
and Applications', in George Braziller NY. 
Voros, J (2003), 'A generic foresight process framework', Foresight, vol. 5, no. 3, 
pp. 10-21.  
Wackernagel, M, Chad Monfreda, Dan Moran, Paul Wermer, Steve Goldfinger, 
Diana Deumling & Murray, M (2005), 'National Footprint and Biocapacity 
Accounts 2005 the underlying calculation method'.  
WBA (2018), Seafood Stewardship Index, World Benchmarking Alliance. 
WBCSD (2017a), Reporting Matters - Striking a balance between disclosure and 
engagement, WBCSD. 
WBCSD (2017b), CEO Guide to the Circular Economy - The future of business is 
circular. 
Webster, K (2015), The Circular Economy: A wealth of flows, Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation Publishing.  

 
 
Willard, B, Upward, A, Leung, P & Park, C (2013), Towards a Gold-standard 
Benchmark for a Truly Sustainable Business, Gold-standard Benchmark for 
ESG Performance, The Natural Step, Canada. 
Williams, A, Kennedy, S, Philipp, F & Whiteman, G (2017), 'Systems thinking: A 
review of sustainability management research', Journal of Cleaner 
Production, vol. 148, pp. 866-881.  
Winter, R & Aier, S (2016), 'Design Science Research in Business Innovation', in 
Business Innovation: Das St. Galler Modell, ch 25, pp. 475-498. 
Wirtz, BW, Pistoia, A, Ullrich, S & Göttel, V (2016), 'Business Models: Origin, 
Development and Future Research Perspectives', Long Range Planning, vol. 
49, no. 1, pp. 36-54.  
Yin, R (2012), Application of case study research 3rd ed, Thousand Oaks: SAGE.  
Yin, RK (2004), 'Case Study Methods', Complementary Methods for Research in 
Education. <www.cosmoscorp.com/docs/aeradraft.pdf> 
Zott, C & Amit, R (2007), 'Business Model Design and the Performance of 
Entrepreneurial Firms', Organization Science, vol. 18, no. 2, pp. 181-199.  
Zott, C, Amit, R & Massa, L (2011), 'The Business Model: Recent Developments 
and Future Research', Journal of Management, vol. 37, no. 4, pp. 1019-1042.  
 
 
 

 
 
The Role of Intellectual Property 
Rights in Sustainable Business Models 
Mapping IP Strategies in Circular Economy Business 
Models  
 
Elisabeth Eppinger1*, Nancy Bocken2, Carsten Dreher3, Anjula 
Gurtoo4, Roberto Hernandez Chea2, Viola Prifti1, Frank Tietze5, 
Pratheeba Vimalnath5,  
 
1University of Applied Sciences for Technology and Economics Berlin; 
2Lund University; 3Freie University Berlin; 4Indian Institute of Science; 
5University of Cambridge;  
 
*Elisabeth.Eppinger@htw-berlin.de 
 
Keywords 
Intellectual Property Rights, Licensing, IP Strategy, Sustainable Business Models, 
Circular Economy 
 Abstract 
Sustainability transitions require novel technologies and business models. They 
rely on collaboration between organizations in the innovation ecosystems. 
Intellectual Property Rights such as patents encourage collaboration by turning 
knowledge into tradeable goods. Patents may also block the diffusion of 
sustainable technologies and business models by fostering periodical monopolies 
for less sustainable technologies. Given their accelerating and blocking effects, in 
the context of sustainability and in particular circular economy, this paper 
presents the range of Intellectual Property strategies and how they match with 
business models in the circular economy. We found that the majority of business 
pursue a closed strategy or restricted sharing of IP. Only very few share their IP 
openly. 

 
 
Introduction 
Sustainability transitions rely on cooperation between organizations in the 
innovation ecosystems, shaped by technological, regulatory, cultural and 
psychological, demand and supply factors, as well as infrastructure and 
maintenance (e.g., Chambers et al., 2013, Elzen et al., 2004; Geels, 2010). Value-
chains often span across industries and countries. Accordingly, a shift to 
sustainable manufacturing and consumption is only possible as a combined effort. 
With new knowledge being at the core of many sustainable technologies and 
related business models, we argue that the selection of adequate intellectual 
property (IP) strategies is an imperative for unlocking innovation and accelerating 
diffusion processes, thereby encouraging sustainability transitions on a global 
scale. 
Given their accelerating and blocking effects, in the context of sustainability and 
in particular circular economy, the range of IP strategies remains to be 
systematically studied, holistically categorized and their impact to be assessed. We 
contribute to the research on sustainable business models by investigating the 
following questions: 
1) Which IP strategies do exist of relevance for sustainable businesses and 
how can they be typologized? 
2) Which IP strategies are employed by sustainable businesses and how do 
they match with sustainable business models?  
The concept of sharing IP is often proposed to reduce transaction costs. E.g., repair 
and remanufacturing are an important concept in the circular economy. Many of 
these activities are carried out by recycling and refurbishing (upcycling) companies 
(Vogtlander et al., 2017). This requires original equipment manufacturers (OEM) 
to share their IP, e.g. design specs and materials, which are often kept internally 
as trade secrets. Lack of access to this IP limits the uptake of remanufacturing. 
Similar effects prevent effective waste treatment, e.g., in textiles. If the 
compositions of coatings remain secret, it is hard to predict the outcomes on toxic 
releases of substances into water and difficult to develop effective water 
treatment 
processes 
(Greenpeace, 
2017). 
Establishing 
remanufacturing 
operations also requires the development of innovative tools for disassembly, 
which some OEMs protect with patents (Wiens, 2014). If shared with 
remanufacturing firms via licensing contracts these could become very lucrative 

 
 
assets. We also observe increasing patent filings protecting circular economy 
innovations (e.g. mushroom protective packaging material, wet-green leather 
tanning, carpet tile products). Hence, understanding and selecting supportive IP 
strategies for circular economy activities is of eminent importance. 
Based on a review of various IP strategies discussed in literature and case 
evidences, we provide a typology of IP strategies from closed to completely open, 
and discuss the framework conditions that enable businesses to select a certain 
strategy.  
IP Strategies from Closed to Open 
Currently, sustainability science and the practice community tend to advocate 
openness and transparency (Kassoy, 2010). For instance, open IP models such as 
free licensing may facilitate knowledge sharing and technology transfer, enable 
market entrants, and nurture niches on sustainable innovations (Sternkopf et al., 
2016). On the other hand, innovation and entrepreneurship research argues for 
IPRs (patents, trade secrets, design rights, trademarks and copyright) to spur 
innovation and growth including economic development in low-income countries, 
by turning intangible assets into tradable goods and attracting foreign investments 
by offering protection (Jacobides et al., 2006, Harvey, 2008). 
In Vimalnath et al. (2019) we synthesize and propose an IP strategy typology (see 
Fig. 1) based on four dimensions derived from the conceptual foundations of 
property rights theory (see also Eppinger, 2015; Eppinger & Tinnemann, 2014). 
Across the four dimensions we distinguish four IP strategy types based on the four 
categories of physical goods (private, club, common and public). Below we 
describe each of the dimension and their degree of openness. 

 
 
Figure 1: IP strategy typology 
Degree of IP ownership rights concentration: This dimension refers to the degree 
to which legal ownership (e.g. patents, copyrights, and trademarks) is 
concentrated to one or distributed (fragmented) across many agents for a certain 
technology, product/ service. At a Private IP Strategy, ownership of IP rights is 
highly concentrated to a single entity. On the other extreme, at the Public IP 
Strategy, IP is in the public domain and jointly owned by society (e.g., lapsed 
patents, published knowledge).   
Degree of access to not publicly disclosed IP: This dimension refers to the extent 
of access provided by owners to those seeking access to IP. Owners can control 
the level of access to their not publicly disclosed IP (e.g. what is published in the 
patent document) that complements the protected IP, which may come as a mix 
of explicit but not disclosed (e.g. technical drawings) and tacit (or sticky) IP of the 
inventor, training, internal documents etc. (Polanyi, 1962; Von Hippel, 1994). 
Owners can choose to prevent outside agents completely from accessing their not 
disclosed IP (Private IP Strategy), allow access only few selected members (Club IP 
Strategy) or allow anyone to access this IP (Public IP Strategy). 
Degree of access to commercial IP usage: This dimension refers to the permission 
granted by IP owners to outside agents for commercially using their IP in exchange 
for some form of direct (e.g. monetary returns from royalty payments) or indirect 
compensation (e.g. benefits derived from strategic positioning, accelerated 
technology diffusion) as set out in licensing agreements that govern this exchange. 

 
 
While owners may not be able to restrict non-commercial usage under certain 
exemptions, such as for research, or compulsory licensing (Beall and Kuhn, 2012) 
we exclude non-commercial usage from this dimension. Owners can prevent 
outside agents either (completely) from commercially using their IP as one 
extreme case (Private IP Strategy), allow only a selected member to commercially 
use their IP (Club IP Strategy), or can allow (almost) anyone to commercially use 
their IP (e.g. through patent pledges) on the other extreme (Public IP Strategy). 
This may happen with certain usage restrictions (Common IP Strategy, e.g. to 
agree to non assertion terms or share back), but may also come without any 
restrictions (Public IP Strategy).  
Business Models in the Circular Economy 
As the circular economy approach supports several Sustainable Development 
Goals (e.g., affordable and clean energy; climate action; responsible consumption 
& production) it is seen as a suitable approach for achieving sustainability 
transitions in both developed and developing countries. Essentially, circular 
economy is about slowing loops (making products that last long, encouraging 
reuse, repair and remanufacturing); closing loops (recycling) and narrowing loops 
(reducing energy consumption, use of renewable energy). Hence, not only the 
European Union, but also countries like India and China are interested in 
implementing circular economy principles (Bocken et al., 2016, 2017; Geisdoerfer 
et al., 2017).  
Business models is commonly referred to as the way business is done (Magretta, 
2002), covering various aspects of a business. Usually a sustainable business model 
is presented by a value proposition (what value is provided - product/service 
offering), value creation and delivery (how value is provided) and value captured 
(how money and other forms of value are captured) (Richardson, 2008; Bocken & 
Short, 2016). The combination of these aspects matter and should be considered 
as parts of a whole, consistent business model. From an analytical perspective it is 
important that businesses may innovate their business model over time and may 
include various sets of value propositions and value creations simultaneously, 
linked to different products and services.  
From linear to circular business models: linear business models, dominant in our 
current economic system, are based on the ‘take-make-dispose’ notion where a 
product is disposed of after a limited number of uses. In a circular economy, the 
product is reused multiple times (e.g. enabled by remanufacturing, refurbishing 

 
 
and reuse) and eventually recycled, supported by innovative business models. 
Within the circular business model spectrum there are many potential options.  
Different types of sustainable business models (SBMs) have emerged within 
diverse industries and organizations to address circular economy principles. Table 
1 describes some SBM types based on literature: 
Table 1. Classification of sustainable business models in the circular economy (based on Bocken 
et al., 2014; Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2016; Ritala et al., 2018) 
SBM type 
Short description 
Possible positive impacts 
1. 
Maximize 
energy 
and 
material 
efficiency 
Solutions to do more with fewer 
resources; generate less waste, 
emissions, 
and 
pollution, 
e.g. 
through a lean approach  
• 
Enhance efficiency and improve 
resource use (narrowing loops) 
• 
Save costs 
• 
Narrowing loops 
2. 
Closing 
resource loops 
Solutions to do reuse materials and 
products and turn waste into 
feedstocks for other products/ 
processes. 
• 
Reduce waste  
• 
Turn 
waste 
into 
value/new 
business lines.  
• 
Generate new revenue streams  
 
3. 
Substitute 
with renewables 
and 
natural 
processes 
Use of non-finite materials and 
renewable 
energy 
sources 
– 
moving away from fossil fuels 
• 
Reduces use of finite resources, 
waste, and pollution (narrowing 
and slowing loops) 
• 
Supports long- term energy 
supply.  
• 
Contributes to “green economy”  
4. 
Deliver 
functionality 
rather 
than 
ownership 
Provide services that satisfy users’ 
needs without them having to own 
physical products 
• 
Can 
encourage 
the 
right 
behaviours with manufacturers 
and users (slowing loops).  
• 
Can reduce the need for physical 
goods (narrowing loops) 
 
IP strategies for Business Models in the Circular Economy 
We identified 30 cases across various industries based on circular economy and 
sustainability awards and prizes, research studies, and sustainability indexes that 
reveal characteristics of one of the four SBM. Cases qualified for further 
investigation when their environmental sustainability contribution appeared 
significant and not just incremental, end-of-pipe solutions or “green washing” 

 
 
approaches. We investigated the IP strategy based on public available data, mainly 
company information, IPR databases and sustainability reports.  
Circular economy businesses employ different IP strategies. While only very few 
are committed to an open sharing, others pursue a closed strategy. However, the 
majority exercise a differentiated approach, opening up for some aspects and 
keeping other knowledge pieces closed, to pertain a competitive advantage. The 
following table lists examples of cases we identified: 
Table 2. Circular Economy SBM and IP Strategies 
SBM type 
Private IP Strategy 
Club IP Strategy 
Common and Public IP 
Strategy 
1. 
Maximize 
energy 
and 
material 
efficiency 
• 
Werner 
& 
Mertz 
(chemical industry) 
• 
TATA 
Motors 
(manufacturing) 
• 
Veolia 
(energy, 
water & waste) 
• 
Signify (energy) 
• 
Jaipur Rugs (textiles) 
• 
Fairphone 
(consumer 
electronics) 
2. 
Closing 
resource loops 
• 
Aquafil (textiles) 
• 
Hilaturas 
Ferre 
(textiles) 
• 
Vegware 
(food 
packaging) 
• 
TerraCycle 
(recycling) 
 
3. 
Substitute 
with 
renewables 
and 
natural 
processes 
• 
Vestas (renewable 
energy) 
• 
Unilever (chemical 
industry) 
• 
Solarcentury 
(energy) 
• 
Ecotricity 
(energy) 
• 
Husk Power Systems 
(Energy) 
4. 
Deliver 
functionality 
rather 
than 
ownership 
• 
Bluecarsharing 
(transportation 
service) 
 
 
 
The majority of cases that we identified fall under the Private (15 cases of 30) and 
Club IP (12 cases of 30) strategy. Notably, the few examples that pursue a Public 
IP Strategy are all enterprises that where founded with an environmental mission. 
They are free of the path dependency of private (or closed) IP strategies.  
Outlook 

 
 
In sustainable business models, IP related issues are rather complex and 
intertwined. For instance, patents may help start-ups to attract funds and recoup 
R&D investments. Incumbents, however, are often locked into trajectories (path 
dependency) due to prior investments (e.g. manufacturing plants) and 
infrastructure (e.g. oil production, global supply chains). They may use patents and 
trade secrets to extend the commercial exploitation of their protected, less 
sustainable technologies, thereby hindering market entrance of actors advocating 
more sustainable technologies. While we indicate with our preliminary research 
that also businesses in the circular economy pursue mostly more closed IP 
strategies, we lack the frameworks for better understanding these complex 
interactions of IP strategies and sustainable business models. Accordingly, further 
case research is required to analyze the inhibiting and stimulating role of IP 
strategies in adopting new business models that contribute to circular economy.  
Acknowledgement 
The project IPACST is financially supported by the Belmont Forum and NORFACE 
Joint Research Programme on Transformations to Sustainability, which is co-
funded by DLR/BMBF, ESRC, VR, and the European Commission through Horizon 
2020. 
References 
Beall, R., Kuhn, R., (2012). Trends in compulsory licensing of pharmaceuticals since 
the Doha declaration: A database analysis. PLoS Med. 9.  
Bocken, N. M., Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014). A literature and practice 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner 
production, 65, 42-56. 
Bocken, N., de Pauw, I., Bakker, C. & B. van der Grinten (2016). Product design and 
business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial & 
Production Engineering, 33, 308-320. 
Bocken, N., Olivetti, E., Cullen, J., Potting, J., & R. Lifset (2017). Taking the 
circularity to the next Level: a special issue on the circular economy. Journal 
of Industrial Ecology, 21, 476-482. 
Brown, P., Bocken, N., & Balkenende, R. (2019). Why Do Companies Pursue 
Collaborative Circular Oriented Innovation? Sustainability, 11(3), 635. 
Chambers, D., Glasgow, R. & K. Stange (2013). The dynamic sustainability 
framework: addressing the paradox of sustainment amid ongoing change. 
Implementation Science, 8, 117. 

 
 
Elzen, B., Geels, F. & K. Green (2004). System Innovation and the Transition to 
Sustainability: Theory, Evidence & Policy. Cheltenham, Edward Elgar 
Publishing. 
Eppinger, E., 2015. Patentpools: Eigenschaften, Motive und Implikationen. 
Springer-Verlag. 
Eppinger, E., & Tinnemann, P. (2014). Technology transfer of publicly funded 
research results from academia to industry: societal responsibilities? In 
Responsible Innovation 1 (pp. 67–88). Springer. 
Geels, F. (2010). Ontologies, socio-technical transitions (to sustainability), and the 
multi-level perspective. Research Policy, 39, 495-510.  
Geels, F.W. (2011). The multi-level perspective on sustainability transitions. 
Responses to seven criticisms. Environmental Innovation and Societal 
Transitions, 1(1), 24–40.  
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. & E. Hultink (2017). The Circular 
Economy: A new sustainability paradigm? Journal of Cleaner Production, 
143, 757–768. 
Greenpeace (2017) Global and regional detox campaigns. Latest detox reports 
(2017). 
Available 
from: 
http://www.greenpeace.org/international/ 
en/campaigns/detox/ 
Jacobides, M., Knudsen, T., & Augier, M. (2006). Benefiting from innovation: Value 
creation, value appropriation and the role of industry architectures. 
Research Policy, 35, 1200–1221. 
Harvey, I. (2008) Intellectual Property Rights: A catalyst to deliver low carbon 
technologies. Briefing Paper, The Climate Group. Available from: 
https://www.theclimategroup.org/ 
sites/default/ 
files/archive/files/Intellectual-Property-Rights.pdf 
Kassoy A. (2010 June 18). No sustainability without transparency! The CSR Blog, 
Forbes, 
Available 
from:https://www.forbes.com/forbes/welcome/ 
?toURL=https:/www.forbes.com/sites/csr/2010/06/18/no-sustainability-
without-transparency 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Massa, L., Bocken, N., Brent, A., & Musango, J. (2016). Business 
Models for Shared Value–How Sustainability-oriented Business Models 
Contribute to Business Success and Societal Progress. Cape Town: Network 
for Business Sustainability South Africa. 
Magretta, J. 2002. Why business models matter, Harvard Business Review, 86-92. 
Polanyi, M., 1962. Tacit knowing: Its bearing on some problems of philosophy. Rev. 
Mod. Phys. 34, 601. 
Richardson, J. 2008. The business model: an integrative framework for strategy 
execution. Strategic Change, 17(5‐6), 133-144 

 
 
Ritala, P., Huotari, P., Bocken, N., Albareda, L., & Puumalainen, K. (2018). 
Sustainable business model adoption among S&P 500 firms: A longitudinal 
content analysis study. Journal of Cleaner Production, 170, 216-226. 
Short, S. W., Bocken, N. M., Barlow, C. Y., & Chertow, M. R. (2014). From refining 
sugar to growing tomatoes: Industrial ecology and business model evolution. 
Journal of Industrial Ecology, 18(5), 603-618. 
Sternkopf, J., F. Tietze, E. Eppinger and P. Vimalnath (2016). Open IP Strategies for 
Enabling Sustainability Transitions. Centre for Technology Management 
Working Paper Series (ISSN 2058-8887). Institute for Manufacturing, 
University of Cambridge. 2016/10, December 2016. 
Vimalnath, P., F. Tietze, E. Eppinger and J. Sternkopf (2019). Open, semi open or 
closed? Towards an intellectual property strategy framework. Accepted for 
presentation at the 19th European Academy of Management (EURAM) 
Conference, Lisbon (Portugal), 26-28 June 2019 (upcoming). 
Von Hippel, E., (1994). “Sticky information” and the locus of problem solving: 
implications for innovation. Management Science, 40, 429–439. 
Vogtlander, J. G., Scheepens, A. E.,  Bocken, N. M. P. & D. Peck (2017). Combined 
analyses of costs, market value and eco-costs in circular business models: 
eco-efficient 
value 
creation 
in 
remanufacturing. 
Journal 
of 
Remanufacturing, 7, 1–17. 
Wiens K. (2014 June 4). Intellectual property is putting circular economy in 
jeopardy. 
The 
Guardian. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business/intellectual-property-
circular-economy-bmw-apple 
 

 
 
The triple top line: How digital 
technology is transforming 
sustainability 
 
Simon Schillebeeckx, Ryan Merrill 
Singapore Management University Lee Kong Chian School of Business 
 
Abstract 
Digital technologies are changing how companies tackle the sustainable 
development goals (SDGs), through the deployment of three complementary 
innovations. Using advanced observations via drones, satellites, IOT devices, and 
citizen science – sensing innovations improve information availability and 
reliability regarding environmental and social data that can be used to inform 
decision-making. Better information about humanity’s interconnections with 
society and our environment reduces search costs and monitoring risks, improves 
organizations’ ability to identify areas of greatest need, and helps planners make 
better predictions about market outcomes. Through digital integration, 
structuring innovations reduce risk and transaction costs as well as enhance the 
capacity to transfer information by improving the rails that connect market actors. 
Finally, sculpting innovations fulfil previously unmet needs by solving governance 
problems to create new products and services in blue oceans and open up new 
markets. This essay provides an introduction to these three innovations that form 
the core of what we call the triple top line. Sensing, structuring, and sculpting are 
underpinning a new Sustainable Digital Economy. 
Introduction 
Limiting global warming to below 2°C as per the Paris Accord, and achieving the 
16 other Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) will require almost US$4 trillion a 
year  (UNCTAD, 2014; Wilson, 2016). With approximately 35% of this sum 
currently being invested, humanity confronts a US$2.6 trillion investment gap 
(Gaspar et al 2019). While this may look like an extraordinary amount of money, 
to put this in context, a recent MIT study estimates it will cost up to US$535 trillion 

 
 
by 2100 to extract carbon from the atmosphere if we don’t start acting soon 
(Hansen et al., 2017).  
Though sustainable development has typically been the prerogative of 
governments and NGOs, businesses often prove more powerful societal actors. 
Some firms draw on greater financial resources than small countries, and are often 
able to act more quickly, efficiently and decisively than states in pursuit of their 
goals. For these reasons, businesses have been increasingly sought out as essential 
partners to achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
agenda and prevent catastrophic climate change.  
Conversations around narrowing the investment gap reveal three action paths: 1) 
increasing the quantum of private sector capital and the speed with which it is 
mobilized for sustainable development, 2) reducing unsustainable investments in 
fossil fuels, human trafficking, poaching etcetera, and 3) increasing efficiencies 
with which current investment translates into impacts. Yet while evidence 
indicates CSR does not erode performance and may improve access to finance 
(Cheng, Ioannou, & Serafeim, 2014; Margolis & Walsh, 2003), customers (Cohen 
& Munoz, 2017) and legitimacy (Bansal & Roth, 2000; Maxwell, Lyon, & Hackett, 
2000), organizations continue to regularly shirk the full costs of their actions (Lyon 
et al., 2018) and the global economy remains environmentally and socially 
unsustainable.  
While businesses have long sought to balance a triple bottom line (Elkington, 
1997) or create shared value (Porter & Kramer, 2011; Porter, Kramer, & Zadek, 
2007), such efforts have generally resolved themselves in a retrenchment of the 
profit pursuit (Orsato, 2006), attenuated by the need to keep social or 
environmental externalities low enough to avoid legitimacy crises (Schlusberg, 
1969; Sethi, 1975). Perhaps unintentionally, the rise of stakeholder theory appears 
to have furthered this retrenchment (Freeman, 1984; Freeman & McVea, 2001), 
leaving fundamental questions about the legitimacy of the capitalist ethos to deep 
ecology thinkers (Devall & Sessions, 1985; Zsolnai & Ims, 2006). Recently however, 
Deloitte (2018) has suggested that many firms are entering a new paradigm in 
which they behave less like a company and more like an institution - integrated 
within society’s social fabric - with far-reaching implications for employees, 
managers, and corporate missions.  
It is against this backdrop that we draw focus on an emerging organizational form, 
that of the Social and Environmental Premium Organizations (SEPOs), and explore 

 
 
the ramifications of its emergence for the field of sustainable business and 
development. Through digital technologies, SEPOs are developing innovative 
solutions that address targets identified in the SDGs in ways that correlate ever 
more closely with private economic goals. These businesses move beyond duty-
bound corporate social responsibility or the need to give back to society (Garriga 
& Melé, 2004) by crafting real ventures for which addressing the SDGs constitutes 
the central business opportunity. By dramatically reducing transaction costs and 
leveraging unlocking network effects in the production of positive socioecological 
spill-overs, digital technologies are thus enabling new business models in which 
the good vs well dichotomy vanishes.  
 The argument in brief 
In the early 21rst century, technological changes promise to increase firms’ ability 
to create positive impacts. Where and when these abilities become profitable, 
new funding sources are apt to jump at the chance to become part of the larger 
solution. As these conditions become more common, problems that were once 
the strict prerogative of the state, the NGO, and international agencies, are 
increasingly being addressed by what we call Social and Environmental Premium 
Organizations or SEPOs. These for-profit enterprises provide public goods in 
private markets, generating positive social and/or environmental spillovers in the 
process. In our study of pioneering firms working at the interstice of the natural 
and the digital world, we find entrepreneurial ingenuity increasingly combining 
with digital technologies – e.g. artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML), 
distributed ledger technologies (blockchains or hashgraphs), internet of things 
(IOT), and telemetry devices like satellites and drones - to contribute to the 
achievement of the SDGs.  
We find these SEPOs’ primary focus lies in developing new sources of public value 
creation, with private value appropriation a secondary goal. To illustrate, an 
executive at the San Francisco-based Saildrone describes the first question her 
company asks itself on receipt of a new, potential client request: “what is the 
scientific value of this project?” If that value is unclear, the company foregoes the 
contract. Here is a private firm, seeking potential social returns of a new project 
before designing an economic value proposition around that.  
Our research shows SEPOs leverage at least one of three “value systems” 
comprising both internal and external capital (i.e. human, tangible, intangible, and 
natural resources, skills and capabilities). In the first of these three systems, SEPOs 

 
 
generate information-based value grounded in the social and environmental 
world. Innovations within this process of sensing generate valuable content within 
novel business models. Second, SEPOs employ digital tools to restructure that 
value within existing market transactions. Advances in structuring have a 
multiplicative influence on social and environmental value and improve the 
efficiencies with which that value is captured and transferred. Third, SEPO employ 
new tools to solve governance problems within and across value chains, a process 
of sculpting that enables the creation of entirely new markets in which social and 
environmental premium align with private gains (sculpting).  
Innovations in these systems can be orchestrated to produce a triple top line that 
generates and magnifies social and environmental value and enables that value to 
be captured and transferred among a widening field of stakeholders within the 
economy. 
We hope this trend towards a triple top line may herald a disruptive shift in the 
opportunities and threats of both incumbent corporations and non-corporate 
organizations.  
Decomposing the triple top line 
Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030 requires behavioral 
change and societal adaptation, major commitments of public and private 
financial capital, and significant and in all likelihood disruptive innovation. 
Innovation promises to 1) strengthen the availability and quality of information 
which is needed to inform capital allocation, 2) reduce the inefficiencies in 
complex value networks that divert capital away from actual impact, and 3) enable 
the emergence of market solutions that address unmet needs in sustainable ways.  
Against this backdrop of challenge and opportunity, more and more organizations 
are turning to digital technologies to 1) reduce waste and overheads to stretch 
committed funds, 2) increase the velocity of market exchanges, 3) automate 
processes to cut costs and improve access, 4) provide reliable data to facilitate risk 
assessment, and 5) create entirely new markets to meet previously unmet needs.  
To formalize the emergent capabilities of Social and Environmental Premium 
Organizations (SEPOs), we borrow from the academic literature on Business 
Model Design. The business model was popularized in the mid-2000s by 
Osterwalder and Pigneur (2007), who designed a simple canvas to describe how 
an organization creates, captures, and transfers value. This value can be measured 

 
 
in profits, as well as in social and ecological health, depending on the nature of the 
business. In academia, the foremost thinkers in this field are Raphael Amit and 
Christoph Zott, who define a business model as “a bundle of specific activities — 
an activity system — conducted to satisfy the perceived needs of the market, along 
with the specification of which parties… conduct which activities, and how these 
activities are linked to each other” (Amit & Zott, 2012: 37).  
 
Our understanding of a business model reflects the work of Zott and Amit 
(2010) who suggest that business model innovations can focus on content (what?), 
structure (how?), and governance (by and for whom?). Inspired by their work, we 
advance a model that consists of sensing (observation), structuring (altering 
market railroads), and sculpting (new market creation). Successful SEPOs combine 
these value-creating activities with complementary value-capturing activities that 
enable them to appropriate part of the social premium they have created. A 
combination of a value-creating and an associated value-capturing activity forms 
a value system. Together, the three systems form the triple top line.  
Rooted in a triangulation of academic research, field experience, and extensive 
interview and archival data, Figure 1 presents a graphical summary of our 
grounded theory approach.  
 
The triple top line: SEPOs’ complementary value systems  
 
Sensing innovations digitize the natural world 
“There is an urgent need to move public finance in the direction of more 
homogeneous, reproducible, and longitudinal data models” (Tara O’Shea, 
Planet). 
Sensing and instrumentation together form the detective value system. Digital 
technologies like IOT, sensors, drones, and satellites transform observations about 
the social or natural world into valuable data to infuse business decisions or policy. 

 
 
Sensing creates novel observations in the form of raw, unprocessed data. 
Instrumentation transforms this data, through combinations of human and 
machine sensemaking (Lin, Schillebeeckx, & George, 2019) into indicators and 
instruments that infuse markets with information.  
 
Sensing can occur through human observation - aided or mediated by technology 
- or purely via digital devices. The former relies on our five senses, the observations 
of which can be digitized in photographs, recordings, and subjective assessments 
of the environment. Platform-based mobile technology can organize these 
observations to enable so-called “citizen science”. Citizen science initiatives like 
Envirate create a decentralized “hive mind” that harnesses wisdom of crowds to 
value the livability and attractiveness of urban and natural spaces. Envirate’s 
community promises to radically increase transparency of state changes in the 
human ecosystem and to serve as an invaluable “fire alarm” for its degradation. 
Across contexts, such advances will make the scale of the sustainability problem 
more tractable and facilitate action. On the margin, more accurate, lower cost 
identification of global hotspots should enable donors and NGOs to target funds 
to projects based more on maximizing positive impact than political expediency.  
Sensing is an antecedent of instrumentation activities that enable an organization 
to reap benefits from their own or others’ sensing activities. Organizations can 
engage in instrumentation by recombining bespoke observations with public data, 
to verify, refine, and improve data quality and to triangulate insights. Alternatively, 
they can collect data within emerging ecosystems and use those to change existing 
practices.  
Envirate is a mobile app and platform built by Finnish start-up Vajrakila 
Innovations. Envirate empowers decentralized users to evaluate their 
surroundings - based on vision, hearing, and breathing - in the same way as 
customers rate hotels. Envirate’s goal is to stimulate participation in concrete 
civic actions to address environmental degradation. Ratings are written to the 
Ethereum blockchain via an ERC-20 token, whereupon a system of hierarchical 
verification enables collective monitoring and protection of the biosphere. 
Users can make new ratings, explore and discuss ratings with other users, and 
organize pro-nature events like planting trees, clearing wastelands, 
waterways, beaches, etc. Users rate both urban and rural areas and enjoy 
infrastructure for creating pro-environmental challenges and incentivizing 
these challenges with ENV token rewards. Collective action supports belonging 
to a broader community and enhances awareness.   

 
 
 
Key activities in the detective value system involve boosting homogeneity of 
metrics (value creation) and reducing verification costs (value capture). Creating 
globally shared metrics, indicators, and instruments is akin to developing a shared 
language for sustainability efforts across markets, a valuable public good (UN 
Environment, 2018). Metric homogeneity can reduce search costs, provide a 
foundation for standard developments, facilitate cross-border capital flows, and 
facilitate the emergence of consistent and comparable regulatory objectives.  
A challenge of sensing innovations is that they have to be acknowledged by 
regulatory agencies before they can really break ground. Even if Planet could 
effectively and cheaply verify carbon stock evolution in forestry at scale, it will still 
be regulators that will need to officially recognize that such technological solution 
can replace expensive consultants and intermediary organizations. Changes are 
unlikely overnight and ad interim impact investors can play a proactive role in 
pushing for greater efficiency by recognizing the technological solution before it 
takes on the role of an accredited “gold standard”. 
Improved data that becomes dynamically available at scale can also have large 
impacts on verification processes for sustainability projects. Such innovations will 
enable investments and development financing to grow more trees, support more 
livelihoods, and improve more lives. Automated and decentralized data collection 
at scale can drastically reduce verification costs, increase the impact of existing 
Planet operates an armada of satellites, continuously circling the earth, 
consistently and repetitively mapping the entire globe. Planet organizes the 
value proposition of its sensing work using a 4I framework of data-driven 
outputs (information provision, insight generation, indicator development, 
and instrumentation for policy and financial planning). Planet also uses 
existing data with higher granularity than their own feeds to compensate for 
the wider aperture of the satellite lens. In doing so, they can extrapolate 
valuable information and develop low cost dynamic indictors via remote 
sensing and earth observation. For instance, Planet employs LiDAR data of 
the Peruvian forests collected by the Carnegie institution in 2014. These very 
expensive data map Peru’s land carbon for a single point in time in a 
scientifically valid way. Planet is overlaying these data with their much 
cheaper satellite feeds that identify existing spatial structures (e.g. forests). 
By training algorithms to correlate the spatial structure of Planet’s optical 
data to the Carnegie’s LiDAR data, the team is developing a new low cost tool 
to map forest carbon globally. 

 
 
funds, and entice more actors to engage in pro-environmental actions. With 
Planet, automated earth observations, instrumented for example with 
correlational analysis of changing biomass and forest measures, promise to 
revolutionize efforts to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest 
degradation (REDD+).  
If SEPOs specializing in the detective value system can address these focal 
challenges of instrument homogeneity and technological verification, information 
and transparency can truly empower previously powerless communities, biomes, 
and countries. In the end, sensing and instrumentation help decision makers make 
better choices, and to make them faster. Improving information identification 
(Who? Which problem where?), reducing variety in instruments (How to assess?), 
increasing variety and dynamics in information inflow (What?), and embedding 
these improvements at the regulatory and finance levels are essential to achieving 
the SDGs. Sensing is the first step. 
Structuring innovations digitize information in existing 
markets 
Structuring and integration constitute the transactive value system, which affects 
the existing exchange infrastructure within which the firm operates. Structuring 
alters connections among market participants, by reducing transaction costs or by 
enhancing information flow. Integration ensures those gains through 
improvements in efficiency or effectiveness are partially captured by the SEPO. 
For example, a blockchain solution lowers transaction costs and improves the 
verifiability of product and process claims. A policy solution eliminates fossil fuel 
subsidies and enables demand-side flexibility companies to support expansions of 
renewable energy56. 
                                                 
56 McCormick, M. (2018). Brussels freezes UK back-up power subsidy scheme, 18th of November, 
2018; last accessed 26 November, 2018 via https://www.ft.com/content/582e6dec-e8e2-11e8-
a34c-663b3f553b35  

 
 
 
Structuring activities imbue existing business processes with addition information 
about individuals, behaviors, environments, and their dynamics to give rise to 
enriched patterns of exchange or replace old legacy systems with which economic 
exchange happens by more advanced digital solutions. Structuring thus involves a 
span of activities by which firms incorporate data into their business, modify or 
improve their operations based on newly available tools, and so modify or reshape 
their value chain interactions to augment value creation. When SEPOs integrate 
these tools into value propositions that attract market participants, for instance 
by improving efficiency and lowering costs, they begin capturing a portion of this 
value for themselves. 
CarbonGrid is a Vietnamese start-up that is tokenizing carbon emission 
reduction certificates (CERs) for resale over the blockchain. By tokenizing CERs, 
CarbonGrid restructures the market by allowing smaller offsets and 
combinations of high quality projects selected by a network of authority 
nodes. This may attract new demand for CERs from households, small scale 
emitters, and companies that can incorporate CarbonGrid’s protocol into other 
blockchain applications. White labelled, the protocol can enable users across 
ecosystems to offset emissions associated with their transactions. By 
packetizing and diversifying at the same time, actors can purchase a varied 
portfolio of small quantity offsets all over the world or focus their 
contributions in places and projects they prefer. The blockchain’s transparency 
also ensures that a single project is never double-counted or double-sold. For 
external organizations that need to verify the veracity of offsetting claims (e.g. 
consultants that provide a stamp of approval on a CSR report in which claims 
of offsetting are made), CarbonGrid’s system also offers easier verification. 

 
 
 
 
Key technologies enabling structuring and integration include blockchain, Big 
Data, AI/ML, IoT Agents, and Automation. These enable firms to understand and 
incorporate rich new data inputs within their planning and production processes, 
and to ensure that the value add of integration is embedded effectively into 
improved value propositions. Both fully automated and human-directed systems 
can integrate new data into firm structures, while existing assets, resource 
configurations, and patterns of management enable or constrain the speed and 
scale with which firms can integrate new activities into their value chain.  
By boosting liquidity and availability of Carbon Reduction Certificates for a more 
diverse group of actors, CarbonGrid can more effectively price the premium 
investors place on a carbon-neutral or carbon-positive investment events. When 
their value goes up, impact investments could be found to perform better as well 
– either because good businessmen do good or because doing good provides a 
signal that enhances investor confidence. While CarbonGrid provides an initial 
step by packetizing CERs, other organizations like Ekofolio (Denmark) are taking 
steps to reduce verification costs of forestry projects and support green bonds for 
natural capital. Ekofolio is creating special purpose vehicles that own land and 
forest that can be tokenized and sold. 
The first case highlight innovations that allow participants in existing markets to 
value planetary resources, like a stable climate or natural biodiversity, when 
DiMuto is a Singaporean start-up seeking to restructure the global fruit and 
vegetable trade business around the principle of collaborative commerce (c-
Commerce™). Using blockchain and digitised trade commerce papers, DiMuto 
is working to create a transparent track and trace system that runs from farm 
to fork. By on-chaining trade operations between multiple players on a single 
immutable ledger, DiMuto produces a digital trace of agreements, contracts, 
store locations, delivery times, and transfers. This reduces risks of fraudulent 
data submissions and trade frictions and allows for a faster, reliable 
identification of problems. Linking IOT data to the blockchain ledger further 
enhances the reliability and availability of product information during 
international transit. By linking smart locks and temperature sensors directly 
with the blockchain, DiMuto’s software allows for quasi real time updates 
about the state of the cold chain during shipping. This information will reduce 
wastage, improve quality and support a “race to the top” in trade 
transparency.  

 
 
making discrete business decisions. By creating carbon offsets at the transactional 
level, CarbonGrid is packetizing risk and invites small-scale contributions. This 
miniaturization can only be made profitable thanks to digital technological 
breakthrough technologies. Our second case highlights the possibility of replacing 
and “thickening” the exchange infrastructure with digital technologies to allow for 
more information transmission, transparency, reliability, and thus decentralized 
trust. A partnership between DBS bank and Agrocorp relies on a similar idea as 
DiMuto and provides “real-time pricing, shared delivery information, and 
automated trade finance approval, cutting Agrocorp’s working capital cycle by 20 
days and improving security”. In due time, the platform will provide source 
information about the traded commodities (e.g. water, fertilizer, and pesticide 
usage) thus “providing improved food traceability and sustainability data to 
customers and consumers” (Merrill, Schillebeeckx, & Blakstad, 2019: 48).  
Fairventures operates in the tropical timber market in Borneo. Their platform 
integrates information about farming practices, suppliers, buyers, and margins. 
This enables smallholders, brokers, and investors to better value the ecosystem 
services preserved and enhanced by sustainable agroforestry, while the collection 
and integration of better data within a trade platform serves an efficient and 
streamlined signaling function for the wider investor community to green supply 
chain for tropical hardwoods. Relatedly, collaborative commerce efforts such as 
that supported by the DiMuto platform will allow small scale farmers to acquire 
trustworthy reputations. Partners within such blockchain ecosystems will 
increasingly trade in bespoke tokens - enhancing trade liquidity, reducing FX costs, 
and learning to integrate digital ledgers within their operations without taking on 
the fixed costs of a bespoke system.  
Sculpting innovations digitize new markets 
Sculpting and inspiration form the generative value system that creates new 
markets where none existed or where existing solutions depended entirely on 
philanthropy or non-profits. By and large, sculptors are creative, entrepreneurial 
organizations that imagine, envision, and then start building a new market. 
Inspiration involves the process of realizing the potential of this ingenuity by 
incentivizing previously disconnected actors to enter new fields of exchange in 
ways that allow the sculpting firm to capture some portion of residual gains from 
new trade. On the whole, we find many sculpting organizations appear to be 
solving an informational problem that frustrates market formation by 
transforming Knightean uncertainty about business and transactional outcomes 
(and attendant trust problems) into probabilistic risk (Knight, 1921).  

 
 
For a market to come into being, three complementary factors need to coalesce: 
(1) a demand for a product or service, (2) a relevant supply, and (3) a variety of 
institutions that allow buyers and sellers to settle upon a price for exchange. In 
the context of the SDGs, all three factors can be problematic: demand may exist 
without sufficient ability to pay or be latent and unknown. Supply may be absent 
due to information deficits and uncertainty. Even when suppliers could envisage 
creating a product that meets latent customer needs, it may be very hard to find 
a suitable time and place to engage in exchange because the social fabric lacks 
institutionalized market mechanisms or because the infrastructure for exchange 
is missing. In addition, weak judicial and regulatory institutions, corruption, poor 
rule of law enforcement, and the possibility of expropriation further exacerbate 
the above difficulties.  
 
Sculpting activities rely on ingenuity and opportunity discovery or enactment to 
build a digital market where there was none to begin with. While integrators 
reinforce connections within an existing market, or link together previously 
disconnected market participants through an improved digital infrastructure, 
sculpting organizations’ value proposition attracts entirely new actors into a 
market that previously did not exist. While structuring organizations can bring 
actors into the fold, sculpting organizations need to create the fold before even 
thinking about bringing actors into it. In more abstract terms, sculpting resembles 
the design of “a specific institutional arrangement consisting of rules and 
hiveonline is a Danish digital platform using blockchain, social networking, 
mobile data, and strategic partnerships to develop a holistic digital exchange 
system (DES) for the unbanked. The DES provides digital contracting and an 
accounting system for informal, unbanked microbusinesses, reputation 
building, tokenization of natural capital to underpin creditworthiness, and 
social network verification using phone records for KYC. A digital currency for 
transactions is safer and more mobile than cash, cheaper than mobile money, 
and pegged to a local currency to avoid changes in monetary supply. By 
enabling the tokenization of natural capital (e.g. a cow) and social capital (e.g. 
network of mobile contacts), hiveonline digitizes less-fungible forms of 
collateral essential to the subsistence farmers and livestock breeders who 
form about 87% of the population and over 50% of households involved in 
crop production [5]. By enabling low-cost digital finance, farmers can start 
investing, narrow the yield gap, reduce rain dependence and access more 
sustainable energy sources and techniques.  

 
 
conventions that make possible a large number of voluntary transfers of property 
rights on a regular basis” (Menard, 1995, p. 170 in Sarasvathy & Dew, 2005).  
 
It is hard to generalize what sculptors do but what appears common across 
sculpting cases is a process by which innovators take a situation characterized by 
high levels of uncertainty - that precluded market formation – and transform it 
into manageable risk. In the digital space, these organizations often cultivate 
interactions within multisided markets, flourishing in the role of market maker, 
broker, or platform. Successful sculpting organizations thus excel at convincing 
people and organizations to engage within a novel and at least semi-formalized 
market context, and so connecting previously unconnected supply and demand.  
To do so successfully, they typically need to both disrupt and co-exist with 
incumbents and existing institutions. HiveOnline for instance creates a verifiable 
source of identification using phone records and uses AI to verify whether an 
entrepreneur’s social network reflects her stated occupation. Network analysis of 
phone records can reveal a person’s role in their community, and so facilitate the 
acquisition of financial services across a digital platform. The guiding principle in 
this example that inspires the founders and the people who are going to use the 
platform is financial inclusion. Smart use of digital technologies, in combination 
with collaboration with local partners, and “socio-mimicry” (i.e. the imitation of 
Arbol is pioneering a global, location-specific, peer-to-peer index insurance 
market using blockchain, smart contracts, and public weather data. This 
market serves farmers whose livelihoods hinge on local weather events and 
for whom existing insurance is ill suited due to inflexible terms and prices 
driven by large US agro firms. Index insurance smart contracts pay out a pre-
set amount whenever an agreed-upon weather threshold is reached, replacing 
output ambiguity (i.e. damage) with input alignment (e.g. more than 125 ml of 
rainfall in a 3 month period). P2P insurance enables anyone to enter the 
market and absorb counterparty risk by trading in a new asset class widely 
uncorrelated to others. The tokenized contracts can be traded on a secondary 
exchange to ensure underlying capital remains liquid during contract duration. 
Tokenized contracts (ERC741) are transparent and cost-effective. Arbol 
contracts self-execute near-instantly on Oracle confirmation of a threshold 
event, and cannot be reneged or corrupted within an immutable blockchain. 
Big data and blockchain thus both improve efficiency and connect currently 
unconnected actors (i.e. a Laos farmer with a Swiss investor betting on 
weather outcomes).  

 
 
aspects of social structure in digital space, like biomimicry) (e.g. hiveonline creates 
a multi-signature wallet which mimics current practice of having money held by 
three elderly women in a village, hiveonline is sculpting out a market niche in one 
the most difficult environments in the world. 
 
Arbol’s sculpting activities focus on turning uncertainty the outcomes of 
local weather events into probabilistic risk, the quintessential job of the 
entrepreneur (Kirzner, 1997; Knight, 1921). By creating an open architecture for 
P2P crop insurance, Arbol is also disrupting the insurance space while 
simultaneously partnering with incumbents and remaining within established 
regulatory environments. While such balancing acts are difficult, the opportunity 
Arbol seeks to address may appeal to large scale insurance companies willing to 
absorb small counterparty risks that are relatively uncorrelated to their other 
assets. Arbol tokens reflect idiosyncratic contracts between multiple parties. By 
making these contracts tradeable, Arbol creates an asset class to interest hedge 
funds, bankers, and investors seeking to diversify their portfolio.  
Discussion 
The three value systems and six associated cases we presented address at least 
three persistent problems in developing market-based solutions for the SDGs. 
These involve a lack of available, transferable, and transparent information to 
inform how we should tackle the SDGs and quantify our progress (sensing), 
inefficiencies in the value chain that reduce the impact of sustainable initiatives, 
reduce the willingness or ability of people to get involved, and disables SEPOs to 
justify premium prices (structuring), and uncertainty in the alignment of 
stakeholders that prevent the formation of markets for sustainable outputs 
(sculpting). Innovative solutions at the discrete level of the business model and 
the systemic level of sustainable finance promise to facilitate a flourishing of new 
markets for sustainability and the preservation and improvement of Earth’s 
natural capital.  
Sensing and Obviating Roadblocks: Innovations in the Sustainable Digital 
Economy are leveraging novel technologies in information processing to obviate 
the roadblocks of verification and evaluation that have eroded faith and frustrated 
scaling in green business. Digitizing the natural world enhances static and dynamic 
visibility of the state of the world and makes that information accessible. This can 
guide corporate action, pressure governments to change policies, and incite social 
upheaval. By making the world ostensibly smaller and within reach, people may 

 
 
also strengthen their connection to the earth which could change consumer 
behavior in the medium to long run.  
Structuring and Scaling Micro-Transactions: A second pattern of innovation 
involves scaling up small transactions with positive spillovers into larger tranches 
of exchange to facilitate mass-scale adoption of sustainable finance. These 
solutions often rely on reducing transaction costs, solving trust problems, enabling 
wisdom of crowds, and producing shared knowledge assets. Potentially the 
biggest promise of blockchain technology lies in its ability to create low-cost, high 
throughput transaction infrastructures uncontrolled by central intermediaries. 
While this has yet to be achieved technologically to make micro-payments 
feasible, structuring organizations are already working to enable this. 
CarbonGrid’s miniaturization facilitates transactional carbon offsets through a 
blockchain-based protocol, the French company Poseidon allows you to directly 
offset your emissions from driving your car at the pump, while smart grid company 
Tempus in the UK envisages a future where smart household appliances 
autonomously decide when to start running based on real-time electricity prices. 
Scaling micro-transactions holds enormous promise for facilitating economy-wide 
adaptation to the vulnerabilities of the Anthropocene era and for increasing the 
market potential (user base) of sustainable finance initiatives. By shortening the 
temporal and spatial distance between a consumer action and the compensation 
for the negative externality, behavioral shifts becomes more likely. If every time 
we put on the kettle to boil some water for tea, we instantly have the option to 
offset the energy consumption, global awareness of climate costs and impact 
would skyrocket, leading hopefully to much-needed changes in consumer 
attitudes and collective consciousness.  
Sculpting Markets for Natural Capital: Hiveonline and Arbol serve as examples of 
respectively improved financial inclusion and improved tradability. At a more 
abstract level, the sculpting organizations are engaged in processes we can call 
customerization and producerization because they enable actors that operated 
outside of markets to become customers and/or producers.  For these sculpting 
activities, social and environmental premiums for positive spillovers become a key 
source of competitive advantage.  
For all of the SEPOs we introduced, we genuinely believe that their profit 
incentives are perfectly aligned with their ability to create a public good. Digitizing 
the natural world, fighting climate change, ensuring food supply transparency, 

 
 
financial inclusion, and managing weather risk are all public goods that have local 
and or global positive externalities. Given the youth of all the SEPOs we have 
presented here and the inevitable liabilities of newness, we cannot be sure these 
organizations will actually survive and become successful at addressing the SDGs. 
However, if they would fail, others will fill their shoes and get it right. Tackling the 
SDGs is the best strategic orientation for any forward-looking company. Everything 
else will have to wait. 
References 
Amit, R., & Zott, C. 2012. Creating value through business model innovation. MIT 
Sloan Management Review, 53(3): 41-49. 
Bansal, P., & Roth, K. 2000. Why companies go green: A model of ecological 
responsiveness. Academy of Management Journal, 43(4): 717-736. 
Cheng, B., Ioannou, I., & Serafeim, G. 2014. Corporate social responsibility and 
access to finance. Strategic Management Journal, 35(1): 1-23. 
Cohen, B., & Munoz, P. 2017. Entering Conscious Consumer Markets: Toward a 
New Generation of Sustainability Strategies. California Management 
Review, 59(4): 23-48. 
Devall, B., & Sessions, G. 1985. Deep ecology. Environmental ethics: Readings in 
theory and application: 157-161. 
Elkington, J. 1997. Cannibals with forks: the triple bottom line of twenty first 
century business. Oxford: Capstone Publishing Ltd. 
Freeman, E. R. 1984. Strategic Management. A Stakeholder Approach. Chicago: 
Chicago Press. 
Freeman, E. R., & McVea, J. 2001. A stakeholder approach to strategic 
management. 
Gaspar, V., Amaglobeli, M. D., Garcia-Escribano, M. M., Prady, D., & Soto, M. 
(2019). Fiscal Policy and Development: Human, Social, and Physical 
Investments for the SDGs. International Monetary Fund. 
Garriga, E., & Melé, D. 2004. Corporate social responsibility theories: mapping the 
territory. Journal of Business Ethics, 53(1-2): 51-71. 
Hansen, J., Sato, M., Kharecha, P., Schuckmann, K., Beerling, D., Cao, J., Marcott, 
S., Masson-Delmotte, V., Prather, M., & Rohling, E. 2017. Young people’s 
burden: requirement of negative CO2 emissions. Earth System Dynamics, 8: 
577-616. 
Kirzner, I. M. 1997. Entrepreneurial discovery and the competitive market process: 
An Austrian approach. Journal of Economic Literature, 35(1): 60-85. 

 
 
Knight, F. H. 1921. Risk, uncertainty and proﬁt. New York: Hart, Schaffner and 
Marx. 
Lin, Y., Schillebeeckx, S. J. D., & George, G. 2019. When Does Conformance Lead 
to Higher Impact? Institutional Categories, Emergent Frames and Boundary 
Spanning in Inventions. Academy of Management Journal, under review. 
Lyon, T. P., Delmas, M. A., Maxwell, J. W., Bansal, P., Chiroleu-Assouline, M., Crifo, 
P., Durand, R., Gond, J.-P., King, A., & Lenox, M. 2018. CSR Needs CPR: 
Corporate Sustainability and Politics. California Management Review: 
0008125618778854. 
Margolis, J. D., & Walsh, J. P. 2003. Misery loves companies: Rethinking social 
initiatives by business. Administrative Science Quarterly, 48(2): 268-305. 
Maxwell, J. W., Lyon, T. P., & Hackett, S. C. 2000. Self-regulation and social welfare: 
The political economy of corporate environmentalism. The Journal of Law 
and Economics, 43(2): 583-618. 
Merrill, R. K., Schillebeeckx, S. J. D., & Blakstad, S. 2019. Sustainable Digital Finance 
in Asia: Creating environmental impact through bank transformation. In S. 
D. F. Alliance (Ed.). Switzerland: SDFA, DBS, UN Environment. 
Orsato, R. J. 2006. Competitive environmental strategies: when does it pay to be 
green? California management review, 48(2): 127-143. 
Osterwalder, A., & Pigneur, Y. 2007. Business Model Generation, a handbook for 
visionaries, game changers and challengers. Amsterdam: Modderman 
Drukwerk. 
Porter, M. E., & Kramer, M. R. 2011. Creating Shared Value: how to reinvent 
capitalism - and unleash a wave of innovation and growth. Harvard Business 
Review, 89(1): 1-17. 
Porter, M. E., Kramer, M. R., & Zadek, S. 2007. Redefining corporate social 
responsibility. Harvard business review, 1: 2007. 
Sarasvathy, S. D., & Dew, N. 2005. New market creation through transformation. 
Journal of Evolutionary Economics, 15(5): 533-565. 
Schlusberg, M. D. 1969. Corporate legitimacy and social responsibility: The role of 
law. California Management Review, 12(1): 65-76. 
Sethi, S. P. 1975. Dimensions of corporate social performance: An analytical 
framework. California management review, 17(3): 58-64. 
UN Environment. 2018. Building Shared Language for Green and Sustainable 
Finance – Expert Briefing on the Development of Taxonomies: 1-7: FC4S. 
UNCTAD. 2014. World Investment report 2014 - Investing in the SDGs: an action 
plan. 
Wilson, G. E. R. 2016. There’s a $2.5 trillion development investment gap. Blended 
finance could plug it. In W. E. Forum (Ed.): World Economic Forum. 

 
 
Zott, C., & Amit, R. 2010. Business model design: an activity system perspective. 
Long range planning, 43(2-3): 216-226. 
Zsolnai, L., & Ims, K. J. 2006. Business within limits: deep ecology and Buddhist 
economics: Peter Lang. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS MODELS 
FOR SUSTAINABILITY 
TRANSITION 
TRACK VII 

 
 
Track VII: New Business Models for Sustainability Transition 
 
Chair: Jan Jonker 
Nijmegen School of Management & Hanze University of Applied Sciences, 
Netherlands 
 
The session 'New business models for sustainability transition' is a peculiar one. 
We do not look at new business models (NBMs) from a theoretical or conceptual 
perspective, but quite daringly, we will look at them as a tool, an instrument, for 
a transition. We see a transition as a fundamental change in the social, economic, 
and institutional arrangements of a specific societal domain (energy, mobility, or 
health-care). Most transitions are framed by the ambition to contribute to a 
combination of sustainability, inclusivity, or circularity. In recent years a growing 
body of conceptual- and empirical-based academic work regarding nature, the 
concept, and the usefulness of transition-thinking can be observed. Despite these 
promising emerging investigations, research en reflections into the theoretical 
nature of transition thinking remain scares. Given this observation, it is more than 
just essential to see where and how business models can drive the quest for 
transitions that foster sustainability. What role can they play and what does such 
a role require when it comes to their design and application? The underlying 
assumption here Is that conventional organization-centric business model based 
on value-chains do not stimulate sustainability, or at least, far too little. However, 
maybe we got it all wrong. So questions we hope to address across the various 
sessions are: Is it the process of collectively creating models that enable transition, 
or is it the outcome of applying a particular type NBM? If the latter what then is 
the nature of these BM's and where can they be observed be it conceptually or 
empirically? The various sessions around the central theme of transition aim at 
exploring these kinds of questions. Therefore, purely theoretical and conceptual 
contributions, as well as contributions driven by empirical observations, are 
welcome. Our ambition is to mix both approaches into a vibrant and daring session 
leading to a fruitful debate of a hardly explored academic and empirical territory.  
 
 

 
 
Competitive Constellations As 
Boundary-Bridging In Socio-Technical 
Transitions: 
 An Automotive Industry Case Study 
 
Peter Wells1, *, Liqiao Wang1 
 
1Cardiff Business School 
Cardiff University, UK 
CF10 3EU 
 
*wellspe@cardiff.ac.uk 
 
Abstract 
This paper proposes micro-network business model innovation across existing 
system boundaries as one contributory mechanism in socio-technical transitions. 
Drawing empirically on secondary data sources that document the creation of 
inter-corporate networks in the automobility system, we argue that such networks 
are the manifestation of evolutionary institutionalisation in which the emergent 
properties of a new socio-technical system may be discerned. The analysis neither 
excludes the institutional incumbents of the existing regime, not is it confined to 
them. Rather, the corporate networks or constellations are understood as 
unstable configurations of multiple agents engaged in a simultaneous 
collaborative and competitive process while seeking to mitigate risk and 
uncertainty. Vignette case studies of Mercedes, BMW and VW are used to 
illustrate the participation of incumbents in the boundary spanning relationships 
that distinguish this phase of technological uncertainty as the existing regime faces 
internal contradictions that compel the transition process. 

 
 
Keywords 
Networks; future automobility; cross-sector integration; technological innovation; 
system evolution; incumbents. 
1. Introduction 
This paper combines insights from the business model innovation literature with 
that from socio-technical transitions to argue that boundary spanning in the form 
of competitive small-scale networks are one mechanism whereby rapid socio-
technical transitions are achieved. The paper illustrates the contention by 
reference to the automotive industry. 
 
Socio-technical transitions are understood as long-term processes of change 
whereby new technologies may permeate society alongside structural changes in 
production, consumption, regulatory frameworks and interventions, social 
behaviours and attitudes, political alliances, and other features leading to the 
emergence of new dynamically-stable systems (Roberts et al., 2018). Particularly 
with sustainable transitions, the focus of attention is to understand how changes 
may be orchestrated to enable desirable outcomes. Current research links 
immediate and everyday experiences with the abstract notion of socio-technical 
transition (Greene, 2018). 
 
Business model innovation, alternatively, is generally understood as a short-term 
process of change whereby new configurations of value creation and capture are 
enacted. Again, there is a growing body of scholarship seeking to understand and 
promote business models for sustainability. 
 
The realm of automobility is often seen as a significant domain wherein profound 
socio-technical transition is an urgent priority. The technologies of the 
contemporary car, and the mobility practices that they give rise to, are widely 
acknowledged to result in multiple social, economic and environmental burdens. 
Emergent new technologies and alternative forms of mobility offer the prospect 
of greatly reducing those burdens – and potentially herald the demise of the 
automobility system that has endured more than 120 years. 
 

 
 
This paper commences with an analysis of the automotive socio-technical system 
undergoing transition. At the boundaries of the system, the automotive system is 
argued to be enmeshing to varying degrees with other systems: electricity and 
energy production; telecommunications; computing, robotics and artificial 
intelligence; and even housing. Socio-technical transition in this sense is not 
defined by the usual processes of niche expansion or even of incumbent-led 
‘internal’ transition. Rather, this paper argues that in the case of automobility 
transition multi-directional bridging of boundaries between socio-technical 
systems.  
 
The paper then outlines the ways in which network value constellations can be 
one means whereby incumbent and new entrant businesses may create 
competitive portfolios of competence and thereby lay the foundations of the 
emergent socio-technical system. The competitive constellations may embrace a 
wide range of activities and scales and be of variable scope and longevity. In the 
case of the automotive industry we provide, in the fourth section of the paper, the 
results of a wide-ranging longitudinal survey in which multiple such examples are 
documented. 
 
2. The automotive socio-technical system under transition 
The automotive industry lies at the heart at what may be regarded as a classic 
socio-technical system. The system is produced and reproduced around the core 
technology of the passenger car with an all-steel body and internal combustion 
engine (Wells and Nieuwenhuis, 2012; Geels et al., 2012). As the socio-technical 
system has developed so further mutually-reinforcing elements have come to 
reinforce the process of embedding. Such elements include franchised and 
independent dealerships, rescue and recovery companies, the insurance and 
finance industries, petroleum suppliers, and the emergency services. As vehicle 
infrastructures such as roads and parking facilities proliferate, so the assumption 
of automobility becomes enmeshed in daily life. Cultures, behaviours and beliefs 
of automobility emerge, often celebrated and idealised through films, books, and 
dedicated ‘fan-clubs’. Institutionalisation creates economic and social inter-
dependencies that help stabilize the system. The system has expanded in spatial 
coverage and in depth, as more societies around the world came to embrace mass 
motorisation. This expansion is still ongoing, indicating a socio-technical system 
that is far from moribund. It is recognised in the research literature that there is a 
vital spatial dimension to the ’unfolding’ of a socio-technical regime (see e.g. 

 
 
Raven et al., 2012; Fontes et al., 2015), particularly for niche emergence. However, 
there is not the same recognition that just as a new niche may be emergent in a 
location, so the incumbent socio-technical system may still be expanding overall. 
Path dependencies and institutional configurations act to reinforce the status quo 
 
Nonetheless, socio-technical systems are not entirely stable, being subject to 
short-term perturbations and long-term transition. Much research has been 
concerned with identifying the ‘pathways’ along which socio-technical transitions 
may be said to occur, or the conditions under which a system may be destabilised 
(Geels, 2002). More recently, research has focussed on the scope for incumbents 
at the regime level to enact transition (Ansari and Krop, 2012; Bergek et al., 2013). 
 
The approach offered in this paper views the socio-technical system as an 
approximately coherent entity, but with a focus on the ways in which one system 
is separate from others by boundaries. That is, the socio-technical system 
becomes destabilised as (some of) the boundaries become more porous and 
blurred. In turn, transition is then an external process of boundary redefinition. 
The redefinition of boundaries is likely to be highly contested, especially in socio-
technical systems of the scale and reach of that pertaining to automobility. This 
approach builds on research into the co-evolution of regimes (Konrad et al., 2006; 
Raven, 2007; Sutherland et al., 2015). The approach also encompasses the insight 
that other systems may also be undergoing transition processes, including the 
energy and electricity systems, iron and steel, or housing (Karakaya et al., 2018; 
Markard, 2018). 
 
In this perspective, socio-technical system change is not reducible to innovation in 
part of the system alone. An example is that of the use of batteries to provide 
motive power (Bohnsack et al., 2014; Weiller et al., 2015). While batteries can 
replace internal combustion engines and can form part of the basis of a new 
automobility socio-technical system, new powertrain technologies can be readily 
assimilated into existing production and consumption practices – and indeed 
much of the efforts of vehicle manufacturers in this regard are intended to achieve 
precisely this outcome. To attribute socio-technical system transition to new 
powertrain technologies alone is to provide only a partial explanation. 
 

 
 
Similarly, studies on other partial elements of this transition process cannot 
provide a full explanation even though they greatly assist in understanding the 
totality of change underway. Hence for example, studies on car-sharing business 
models are valuable for revealing how technologies may enable or support a wider 
transition, and how such developments may be further supported by increased 
vehicle autonomy. Studies on connectivity tools, enabled by apps for example, 
may show how the management of electric vehicles may be thereby enhanced. In 
sum, there are a great many mutually supportive inter-dependencies at play in 
system transition. Equally there will be some contradictory aspects. For example, 
autonomous cars may result in greater car use, so increasing time lost to 
congestion (Harper et al., 2016; Wadud et al., 2016).  
 
Just as an entrenched socio-technical system has multiple dimensions through 
which endurance is obtained, so an emergent socio-technical system has to exhibit 
the evolution of reinforcement on the path to becoming embedded. That is, the 
emergent regime goes through a process of institutionalisation in which new 
vested interest relationships are constructed. In turn there may be resultant 
effects such as changes in tax rules, regulatory compliance requirements, new 
physical infrastructures and artefacts and, ultimately, new social behaviours and 
attitudes that resonate with the emergent regime. The growth and solidification 
of the emergent regime ultimately will depend upon the ability to generate 
increasing returns and network effects in order to transcend multiple forms of 
lock-in (Fouquet, 2016).  
 
There is widespread agreement from participants in the established automotive 
system, external observers and analysts, and those seeking to participate in the 
emergent system of the future, that there are indeed profound changes underway 
that will constitute disruptive change (Gao et al., 2014; Schulze et al., 2015; 
Daimler, 2016; Viereckl, R. et al., 2016). 
 
3. Incumbents, new entrants, networks and business model 
innovation at the boundary 
Business model innovation research usually is concerned with the single firm level, 
with a focus on the components of business models (Morris et al., 2005; Rocca and 
Snehota, 2017). Business models are also an abstraction of a more complex reality 

 
 
and may be considered a means to communicate – particularly important in 
creating business models for sustainability when a larger number of more diverse 
stakeholders than the norm is include in the communications effort. In this 
respect, business models may act to seek resolution to uncertainty. That is, firms 
engage in cognitive framing with other social actors or stakeholders whereby a 
shared understanding of phenomenon may be developed (Druckman and Bolsen, 
2011). However, when a multiplicity of such framings is present the result is one 
of competitive cognitive framing. In this manner, firms seek to exert influence on 
the future shape of the market. 
 
With the emergence of Internet-enabled ‘platform’ or intermediary business 
models, network perspectives have become prominent (Rocca and Snehota, 
2017). There is an established body of research into network value creation and 
capture ( Stabell and Fjeldstad, 1998; Fjeldstad and Snow, 2018), in which the core 
principle is that value expands as the network is enlarged. Business network 
research is usually concerned with themes such as the morphology of the network 
and its relation to the position of the firm (Palo and Tähtinen, 2011). The co-
evolutionary and emergent property of business model innovation in network 
value creation has been highlighted in the research (Rocca and Snehota, 2017; 
Carlborg and Kask, 2018). As important, value creation is shown to be potentially 
spanning the boundaries of the firm, with other firms or with users (Hienerth et 
al., 2011; Palo and Tähtinen, 2011; 2013; Bankvall et al., 2017). 
 
Inter-corporate networks can therefore be one understood as a type of business 
model innovation whereby new forms of value creation and capture are created. 
However, small-scale networks cannot be said to create value in the short term 
via network enlargement. Rather, the proposition here is that the focal firm is 
enabled to create value by combining into a micro-network (portfolio or 
constellation) several distinct competencies and attributes that allow the core 
value activity to migrate into a new value activity. The boundary spanning 
activities may be catalysed by intermediaries (Smink et al., 2015), but in this paper 
it is the focal firm that is the subject of the analysis. It is possible that as the micro-
network enlarges (perhaps to gain economies of scale) so the embedding of an 
emergent socio-technical system is accelerated. 
 
Significantly, the creation of constellations has a duality in that just as it confers 
capabilities to those within the constellation, it potentially denies them to others 

 
 
outside the constellation. That is, constellations of micro-networks have the 
potential to act in an exclusionary, competitive manner. This attribute may be 
more significant in periods of rapid technological change when a new market is 
emergent. In such conditions, competition may have a temporal dimension. Those 
firms which occupy the embryonic market space earlier may gain significant 
advantages, ranging from the ability to influence technical standards to shaping 
consumer expectations over the product or service offered, alongside the financial 
growth prospects that the new market may offer.  
 
The new industry is often portrayed as an emergent ‘ecosystem’ of automobility 
services, as if it is a cohesive entity, but in practice the boundaries of the existing 
automotive system overlap with a growing number of other systems in electricity 
generation and distribution, in artificial intelligence, in mobile communications, in 
big data, mapping and real-time information provision for example (Schulze et al., 
2015). Companies facing this uncertainty and turbulence may seek a range of 
‘protection’ strategies; Pinske et al. (2014) identify ‘collaboration-integration’ as 
one such strategy, but do not elaborate greatly on how such collaboration-
integration is to be achieved. The creation of constellations as discussed here may 
be one such means to achieve collaboration-integration. Van Waes et al. (2018) 
argue that business model innovation can be analysed using socio-technical 
transitions as a contextualisation, and in so doing formulate prospective outcomes 
for those innovative models. Here we take a different perspective, in that business 
model innovation and multiple socio-technical systems are co-evolutionary. 
 
Our research proposition is that at the micro (or firm) level, business model 
innovation in constellation networks is a boundary-spanning activity, reflecting in 
microcosm the system-wide boundary spanning in processes of sustainable socio-
technical system transition. We expect to be able to measure this boundary 
spanning by reference to new relationships being formed both ‘within’ the 
automotive system, and across the boundaries of that system into other systems. 
Powerful incumbent institutional actors such as vehicle manufacturers, major 
suppliers of components, and fuel or infrastructure providers are understood as 
‘new entrants’ into the new system, albeit with a privileged point of departure 
that may enable them to retain significant activities in the new system.  
 
 
 

 
 
4. Competitive constellations in the automotive industry 
In order to test this proposition, the methodological approach has been to 
accumulate multiple instances whereby firms have engaged in new relationships 
that span the boundary between the established automobility system and other 
socio-technical systems. Overall, the methodological approach is one of 
longitudinal immersion (Wells and Nieuwenhuis, 2017). 
 
A wide range of secondary sources was used to create a robust and representative 
database of cases. Sources included the specialist press and websites (e.g. 
Automotive News; Electriv; Fleet News), business press and websites (e.g. Reuters; 
Bloomberg; Forbes), and corporate press releases and reports. The resulting data 
cannot be claimed to be comprehensive, but does at least give a sense of the scale, 
scope and character of inter-corporate relationships being formed. Qualitative 
insights were gleaned from attendance at key industry conferences (e.g. Electric 
Vehicle Symposium), visits to factories and other facilities (e.g. test tracks; 
dealerships; corporate offices) and semi-structured discussions with key corporate 
personnel, and from a diverse range of academic and non-academic literatures.  
 
The search process involved the definition of key themes in terms of a) inter-
corporate relationships and b) relevant technologies or competencies that could 
in combination contribute to the permeation of system boundaries. In such a fluid 
and multi-dimensional situation, rather ‘static’ methodological concepts such as 
coding are of limited utility. In contrast, critical reflexivity with partial data in an 
exploratory research mode is the basis for the generation of research propositions 
and theoretical insights. The creation of distinct inter-corporate relationships can 
take many forms, ranging from outright merger or acquisition, to equity joint 
ventures and agreements to collaborate on specific items. Moreover, companies 
are likely to seek to develop their own competencies internally and seek other 
partnerships (such as with universities) that might enable crossing of system 
boundaries. However, this research has a focus on the corporate level. 
 
Data accumulation started with the formal announcement by Google (Alphabet) 
in May 2014 that it had developed an autonomous car, as this represents a 
convenient and symbolic start of the transition in automobility. Inevitably, this is 
an arbitrary judgement and abstraction, but one that has been adopted for 
analytical clarity for the subsequent narrative. In Table 1 we show in alphabetical 

 
 
order the number of instances in which a company from ‘inside’ the automotive 
system has formed a relationship with a company from outside that system.  
 
Table 1 Company relationships for connected, autonomous, shared and electric 
vehicles 
 
Company  
Number of relations 
within the System 
Number of relations out 
of the System 
Apple 
 
2 
Alibaba 
 
4 
Amber 
 
6 
Audi 
6 
9 
Autoliv  
 
1 
Baidu  
 
1 
BlaBlaCar  
 
2 
BMW 
11 
16 
Bosch 
 
8 
BP 
 
3 
BYTON 
1 
1 
Continental 
 
1 
Daimler 
5 
14 
DidiChuxing 
 
10 
Ericsson  
3 
6 
Fiat-
Chrysler 
1 
6 
Ford 
8 
18 
Gett 
 
1 
GM 
 
5 

 
 
Google 
 
3 
Honda 
 
3 
Hyundai 
1 
11 
HERE 
 
4 
IBM 
 
3 
Intel 
 
8 
JLR 
 
3 
Lyft 
1 
 
Mercedes 
 
7 
Mobileye 
 
8 
Nissan 
4 
9 
NVIDIA 
 
6 
PSA 
1 
8 
Qualcomm 
3 
 
Renault 
4 
11 
Renault-
Nissan 
3 
5 
Siemens 
 
3 
Tesla  
 
2 
Toyota 
2 
2 
Uber 
1 
4 
Volvo 
2 
9 
VW 
2 
18 
ZF 
 
9 
 
Business model innovation can be seen at multiple points in the system boundary 
permeation process: 
 

 
 
• New entrants with novel business models may act as system disrupters or 
new intermediaries (e.g. Uber). 
• Existing vehicle manufacturers may enact new business models alongside 
or in parallel with their traditional approach (e.g. BMW-Mercedes with 
DriveNow), with or without external partners. 
• Micro-networks or constellations in effect become new business models 
as a means for those inside and outside the automotive industry system to 
access other systems. 
 
There is no single formula for business model innovation in these circumstances. 
Business managers, whether incumbent or new entrant, are uncertain of the 
correct business model architecture and subsequent strategies. In the context of 
constrained resources, even the most powerful businesses are compelled to seek 
alliances and other forms of co-operation. In January 2019 VW and Ford 
announced a far-reaching alliance. Justifying this, the joint press release claimed: 
 
“Volkswagen and Ford have signed a memorandum of understanding to 
investigate collaboration on autonomous vehicles, mobility services and electric 
vehicles and have started to explore opportunities… Volkswagen and Ford will 
harness our collective resources, innovation capabilities and complementary 
market positions to even better serve millions of customers around the world.” 
(Ford PR, 2019) 
 
To illustrate these themes, we present three illustrative cases: Mercedes, BMW, 
and VW. 
 
4.1 Mercedes 
Illustrative relationships for Mercedes are summarised in Table 2. As with all the 
cases discussed here, the sources for the relationships are listed in Appendix 1. 
 
 
 

 
 
Table 2 Mercedes: internal and external relationships 
 
Company/Project  
Date 
Item 
Boost 
2014/05/12 
A ride sharing service for children in Polo Alto, can 
schedule a place from swimming lesson or school to 
home  
Ericsson and 
others 
(Wolde and 
Wissenbach 2016) 
2016/09/27 
BMW, Audi with Mercedes form 5G alliances to 
enable autonomous vehicles. This alliance also 
including companies from telecommunications like 
Ericsson, Huawei, Intel, Nokia and Qualcomm. 
Smart (Autocar 
2016) 
2016/9/29 
Peer-to-peer car sharing, the same operation style 
with Airbnb. Online booking with car-free date. Trailed 
in San Francisco and Cooper with Getaround. 
Car2Go 
2017/12/5 
Car sharing scheme, initially with car rental partners. 
Merged with BMW car sharing in 2019. 
Via (Otto et al. 
2017) 
2017/9 
Joint venture with an investment of $50 m, running 
on-demand shuttle service in selected cities in 
America. Via has software while Mercedes offers vans 
HERE 
(Vijayenthiran 
2018) 
2018/02/23 
Strategic partnership in which HERE’s HD Live Map is 
highly integrated with Mercedes’s autonomous 
vehicles. Joint initiative with BMW and Audi. 
BASF (Rosenthal 
2018) 
2018/09/20 
Collaborated to have ViaVan on-demand ride sharing 
scheme  
 
The case of Mercedes illustrates the theme of boundary crossing with the creation 
of the Car2Go car sharing business. The investments needed, the competences 
and resources required, and the relationship with customers are all quite different 
to the traditional ‘move the metal’ business model of selling new cars. The car 
becomes an asset used to realise a long-term income stream rather than a short-
term sale. Widespread car sharing would significantly reduce demand for new 
cars, and radically change the income base for vehicle manufacturers. Car sharing 
demands high connectivity, hence the significance of the 5G alliance enacted with 
multiple telecoms businesses. In the future, car sharing services may be expanded 
by offering autonomous cars, and thus the joint investment in HERE (formerly the 
mapping division of Nokia) enables Mercedes to access important data and 
integrate the software into their vehicles. These are tentative steps, perhaps 
exploratory in nature, in which lessons may be learned. The car sharing activity, 
for example, was merged into the BMW DriveNow car sharing service in 2019. This 
event may be an indication of how difficult it has been to establish a viable 
business model for car sharing for Mercedes. 
 
 
 

 
 
4.2 BMW 
Illustrative relationships for BMW are summarised in Table 3.  
 
Table 3 BMW: internal and external relationships 
 
Company  
Date  
Item  
Baidu (Affan 
2015) 
2015/12/12 
Baidu together with BMW 3 series have on road 
self-driving car test in China  
Intel (Rory 
2016) 
2016/07/01 
With Mobileye sign a deal to develop autonomous 
vehicles of L3-L5, planning in mass production 
around 2021.  
Amazon 
2016/09/30 
Alexa home wireless voice connectivity will be used 
in BMW 
Ford (McVeigh 
2016) 
2016/11/29 
BMW with Ford and Daimler, VW Group for fast-
charging EV network along the major highway of 
Europe.  
IBM (Irwin 
2016) 
2016/12/15 
Partnership with BMW by using artificial intelligence 
system to improve driver-assist functions. With 
$200m investment of new Munich Watson Internet 
of Things project.  
Porsche  
2017/04/28 
Porsche with Daimler, Ford and BMW agreed a joint 
venture for spreading electric vehicles  
Fiat Chrysler 
(Sage 2017) 
2017/08/16 
Joint BMW and Intel club, also Delphi and 
Continental are part of this alliance 
Nissan (Gibbs 
2017) 
2017/10/22 
Together with Renault, Volkswagen, Kia and 
Mitsubishi will fund an Electric Vehicle Experience 
Centre in Milton Keynes 
DriveNow 
(Manthey 
2018) 
2018/01/29 
BMW purchase DriveNow for €209 m after initial 
joint venture with Sixt. Precursor to merger with 
Car2Go. 
Ganfeng 
(Randall 
2018a) 
2018/09/30 
5 years agreement for lithium hydroxide, also have 
contract with another Chinese battery company 
CATL  
 
BMW, as with other automotive companies, has been active in acquiring a 
capability in artificial intelligence, chiefly as a means to introduce autonomous 
cars. It is expected that the data processing capabilities of cars will grow 
substantially, and so there is a need to work much more closely with providers of 
computers and related items. In the case of BMW, this means linking up with Intel. 
In contrast and as an illustration of the competitive character of some micro-
networks, VW Group has worked closely with Nvidia.  
 

 
 
4.3 VW Group 
Illustrative relationships for VW Group are summarised in Table 4.  
 
Table 4 VW Group: internal and external relationships 
 
Company 
Date  
Item  
LG 
(Volkswagen 
Group 2016) 
2016/07/06 
signed a memorandum of understanding to develop 
next generation connect car service platform 
including carmaker battery and audio assistant 
system 
Mobileye 
(Volkswagen 
News 2017) 
2017/02/13 
Road Experience Management from Mobileye and 
develop new navigation data collection tool for 
autonomous driving system.  
NVIDIA 
(Sheahan 2017) 
2017/01/05 
As strategic partner, using AI technology to 
develop self-assistant self-learning system 
Gett (Hetzner 
2016) 
2016/05 
Strategic partnership for ride sharing scheme  
KUKA 
(Volkswagen 
Group 2017) 
2017/01/10 
Strategic partnership for future vehicle service and 
technology support and innovation  
MOIA 
2016/12/05 
New mobility service company under VW umbrella 
for designing new mobility plan and service  
Google 
(Lambert 2017) 
2017/11/07 
For quantum computing for new materials, traffic 
optimization, batteries and AI 
Aurora 
(Werwitzke 
2018) 
2018/01/05 
Partnership for bring autonomous EVs to Mobility-
as-a-service fleets 
DidiChuxing 
(Edelstein 2018) 
2018/04/30 
Collaboration for self-driving cars, also managing 
vehicles just for ride hailing. Not only Didi with 
VW, also signed memorandum of understanding 
with the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi Alliance for 
growing electric vehicle service  
Bosch (Krok 
2018) 
2018/06/26 
With NVIDIA, Aquantia and Continental create the 
NAV alliance for promoting the standardization of 
data transfer and bring autonomous vehicles to 
mass market.  
GIG Car 
Sharing 
(Randall 2018b) 
2018/06/14 
An EV car sharing (free floating mode) trail project 
with 260 vehicles within a geo-fenced area 
Sacramento 
FAW Group 
(Sheahan 2018) 
2018/07/10 
With Chines Government sign memorandums of 
understanding for technique cooperation including 
autonomous driving, connectivity and electric 
mobilities  
Microsoft 
(Volkswagen 
Group 2018) 
2018/10/02 
Strategic partnership for digital transformation, 
improving its vehicle connectivity service 
Elli Group 
GmbH (Randall 
2019) 
2019/01/08 
As a subsidiary company focus on electric vehicle 
charging and solutions, operating B2B commercial 
and operation service and also partial B2C. 
 

 
 
A concern for the vehicle manufacturers is that a new entrant or intermediary 
could disrupt their business model and their market. Hence there is some interest 
in collaboration with other vehicle manufacturers to bolster the preferred 
approach, but also a need to collaborate with those posing the external threat 
(e.g. VW with DidiChuxing). 
 
5. Conclusions 
This paper has shown that firms within and without the established automobility 
system have engaged in a diverse range of business model innovations in micro-
networks or constellations in a bid to create new value competencies. While each 
individual constellation may be of uncertain longevity or success, the collective 
and cumulative impact of multiple boundary-spanning activities is to give a 
corporate dimension to socio-technical transition. Just as economists consider 
that the long run average cost curve is constituted by multiple short run average 
cost curves, so transitions can be constituted by multiple short run steps.  
 
Clearly, there is more to socio-technical transition than new value creation and 
capture structures. Moreover, there is no certainty that the transitions so enacted 
will be sustainable. These emergent socio-technical systems may be differently 
unsustainable, for example. New contradictions and pressures are likely to 
emerge, providing the structural impetus for further transition. As the new 
automobility system evolves, the fit to over-arching concepts such as the circular 
economy is uncertain. It is notable that the original Daimler CASE concept 
neglected any mention of recycling, re-use or themes such as product life 
extension that would be expected in sustainable business model innovation. 
Constant vigilance is needed to ensure sustainable transitions are created.  
 
Moreover, myriad other boundaries must be crossed by other actors, in other 
times and places, as these transitionary processes unfold. New patterns of 
mobility will emerge, some of which will not involve cars at all. New regulatory, 
governance and policy interventions are necessary (Hall et al., undated; Hopkins 
and Schwanen, 2018). New behaviours and attitudes may proliferate around 
shared vehicle ownership and use.  

 
 
 
The result is a form of chaotic movement involving contestation, agency, 
irrationality, purposive policy intervention, chance, and unanticipated events. At 
the level of business model innovation, the outcomes are equally uncertain. Even 
if the general ‘direction of travel’ might be agreed, it is certain that individual 
businesses with their unique portfolios of competence and resources will take 
distinct pathways. There is therefore a great deal of ‘noise’ when grand theoretical 
constructs such as socio-technical transitions are examined in detail and in ‘real 
time’. In these circumstances, absolute proof of a transition occurring is 
impossible. Only the lesser judgement of probable cause can be offered.  
Acknowledgements 
This paper was supported in part by funding from H2020 Call MG-8.5-2017 Single 
Stage-INEA STARS – Shared mobility opporTunities And challenges foR European 
citieS, Grant Agreement No. 769513; It was also supported by the Transport 
Futures Network in Cardiff University. 
References 
Ansari, S. & Krop, P. (2012) Incumbent performance in the face of a radical 
innovation: Towards a framework for incumbent challenger dynamics. 
Research Policy, 41(8), 1357-1374. 
Bankvall, L., Dubois, A. & Lind, F. (2017) Conceptualizing business models in 
industrial networks. Industrial Marketing Management, 60, 196-203. 
Bergek, A. Berggren, C. Magnusson, T. & Hobday, M. (2013) Technological 
discontinuities and the challenge for incumbent firms: Destruction, 
disruption or creative accumulation? Research Policy, 42(6-7), 1210-1224. 
Bohnsack, R., J. Pinkse, & A. Kolk (2014) Business models for sustainable 
technologies: Exploring business model evolution in the case of electric 
vehicles. Research Policy, 43 (2), 284-300. 
Carlborg, P. & Kask, J. (2018) Business model transformation: a dynamic network 
approach, Paper Presented to The 34th Annual IMP Conference Marseille, 
France. 
Daimler (2016) New strategic orientation Mercedes-Benz Cars reinvents itself 
https://www.daimler.com/innovation/specials/electric-mobility/case.html, 
[Accessed 17th November 2016.] 
Druckman, J. & Bolsen, T. (2011) Framing, Motivated Reasoning, and Opinions 
About Emergent Technologies. Journal of Communication, 61(4), 659-688. 

 
 
Fjeldstad, Ø. D. & Snow, C. C. (2018) Business models and organization design. 
Long Range Planning, 51, pp. 32-39. 
Ford PR (2019) VOLKSWAGEN AG AND FORD MOTOR COMPANY LAUNCH GLOBAL 
ALLIANCE, 
http://www.newspress.co.uk/public/ViewPressRelease.aspx?pr=81885&a
mp;pr_ref=43600, [Accessed 15th January 2019.] 
Fouquet, R. (2016) Path dependence in energy systems and economic 
development, 
Nature 
Energy, 
1, 
Article 
Number 
16098. 
https://www.nature.com/articles/nenergy201698 [Accessed 24th January 
2018.] 
Gao, P.; Hensley, R. & Zielke, A. (2014) A road map to the future for the auto 
industry. Mckinsey Quarterly, October, 1-11. 
Geels, F.W. (2002) Technological transitions as evolutionary reconfiguration 
processes: A multi-level perspective and a case-study. Research Policy, 31(8-
9), 1257-1274. 
Geels, F.W.; Kemp, R.; Dudley, G. & Lyons, G. (eds) (2012) Automobility in 
transition? A socio-technical analysis of sustainable transport, New York: 
Routledge. 
Greene, M. (2018) Socio-technical transitions and dynamics in everyday 
consumption practice. Global Environmental Change, 52, 1-9 
Hall, S.; Shepherd, S. & Wadud, Z. (undated) The innovation interface: business 
model innovation for electric vehicle futures, Copy obtained from 
http://homepages.see.leeds.ac.uk/~earshal/Files/11167_SEE_electrical_ve
hicles_report_WEB.pdf, [Accessed 12th December 2018.] 
Harper, C.D., C.T. Hendrickson, S. Mangones & C. Samaras (2016) Estimating 
potential increases in travel with autonomous vehicles for the non-driving, 
elderly and people with travel-restrictive medical conditions. Transportation 
Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, 72, 1-9. 
Hienerth, C.; Keinz, P. & Lettl, C. (2011) Exploring the Nature and Implementation 
Process of User-Centric Business Models. Long Range Planning, 44, pp. 344-
374. 
Hopkins, D. & Schwanen, T. (2018) Automated mobility transitions: Governing 
processes 
in 
the 
UK. 
Sustainability, 
10(4), 
956. 
DOI: 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su10040956. 
Karakaya, E.; Nuur, C. & Assbring, L. (2018) Potential transitions in the iron and 
steel industry in Sweden: Towards a hydrogen-based future? Journal of 
Cleaner Production, 195, 651-663. 

 
 
Konrad, K. Voss, J-P. & Truffer, B. (2006) Transformations in consumption and 
production patterns from a regime perspective. Chapter 33 pp439 – 458 in 
Proceedings: Changes to Sustainable Consumption, 20-21 April 2006, 
Copenhagen, Denmark. Workshop of the Sustainable Consumption 
Research Exchange (SCORE!) Network (www.score-network.org), supported 
by the EU’s 6th Framework Programme. Copy obtained from 
http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.573.3003&rep=
rep1&type=pdf. [Accessed 24th January 2018.] 
Markard, J. (2018) The next phase of the energy transition and its implications for 
research and policy, Nature Energy, 3, 628-623. 
Morris, M.; Schindehutte, M. & Allen, J. (2005) The entrepreneur’s business 
model: toward a unified perspective. Journal of Business Research, 58(6), 
726-735. 
Palo, T. & Tähtinen, J. (2011) A network perspective on business models for 
emerging technology-based services. Journal of Business & Industrial 
Marketing, 26(5), 377-388. 
Palo, T. & Tähtinen, J. (2013) Networked business model development for 
emerging technology-based services. Industrial Marketing Management, 42, 
773-782. 
Raven, R. (2007) Co-evolution of waste and electricity regimes: Multi-regime 
dynamics in the Netherlands (1969–2003). Energy Policy, 35(4), 2197-2208. 
Roberts, C.; Geels, F.W.; Lockwood, M.; Newell, P.; Schmitz, H.; Turnheim, B. & 
Jordan, A. (2018) The politics of accelerating low-carbon transitions: 
Towards a new research agenda. Energy Research and Social Science, 44, 
304–311. 
Rocca, A. L. & Snehota, I. (2017) Business models in business networks – how do 
they emerge? IMP Journal. 11(3), 398-416. 
Schulze, A.; MacDuffie, J.P. & Täube, F.A. (2015) Introduction: knowledge 
generation and innovation diffusion in the global automotive industry—
change and stability during turbulent times. Industrial and Corporate 
Change, 24(3), 603-611. 
Smink, M.; Negro, S. O.; Niesten, E. & Hekkert, M. P. (2015) How mismatching 
institutional logics hinder niche–regime interaction and how boundary 
spanners intervene. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 100, 225-
237. 
Stabell, C. B. & Fjeldstad, Ø. D. (1998) Configuring value for competitive 
advantage: on chains, shops and networks. Strategic Management Journal, 
19(5), 413-437. 
Sutherland, L. A.; Peter, S. & Zagata, L. (2015) Conceptualising multi-regime 
interactions: The role of the agriculture sector in renewable energy 
transitions. Research Policy, 44, 1543-1554. 

 
 
Van Waes, A.; Farla, J.; Frenken, K.; De Jong, J.P.J. & Raven, R. (2018) Business 
model innovation and socio-technical transitions. A new prospective 
framework with an application to bike sharing. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 195, 1300-1312. 
Viereckl, R. et al. (2016) Connected car report 2016: Opportunities, risk, and 
turmoil on the road to autonomous vehicles, Price Waterhouse Coopers, 
https://www.strategyand.pwc.com/reports/connected-car-2016-study, 
[Accessed 11th November 2016.] 
Wadud, Z., D. MacKenzie & P. Leiby (2016) Help or hindrance? The travel, energy 
and carbon impacts of highly automated vehicles. Transportation Research 
Part A: Policy and Practice, 86, 1-18. 
Wells, P. & Nieuwenhuis, P. (2012) Transition failure: understanding continuity in 
the automotive industry. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 79, 
1681-1692. 
Wells, P. & Nieuwenhuis, P. (2017) Operationalising deep structural sustainability 
in business: longitudinal immersion as extensive engaged scholarship. British 
Journal of Management, 28, 45–63. 
Weiller, C., Shang, T., Neely, A. & Shi, Y. (2015). Competing and co-existing 
business models for EV: Lessons from international case studies. 
International Journal of Automotive Technology and Management, 15(2) 
126-148. 
 
 
 

 
 
Appendix 1: Sources for case studies on Mercedes, BMW 
and VW 
Reference Reference: 
Affan, M. 2015. BMW and Baidu will Launch First Self-Driving Car in China. 
Available at: https://www.i4u.com/2015/12/100907/bmw-and-baidu-will-
launch-first-self-driving-car-china [Accessed: 21 July 2016]. 
Autocar 2016. Mercedes-Benz develops so-called Airbnb for cars | Autocar. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.autocar.co.uk/car-news/motor-shows-paris-
motor-show/mercedes-benz-develops-so-called-airbnb-cars [Accessed: 22 
January 2019]. 
Edelstein, S. 2018. Volkswagen and Didi Chuxing in Talks on Ride-Hailing Fleet, 
Report 
Says. 
Available 
at: 
http://www.thedrive.com/tech/20524/volkswagen-may-manage-a-fleet-
of-ride-hailing-vehicles-to-didi-chuxing [Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Gibbs, N. 2017. BMW, Nissan, others set aside rivalry to promote EVs in multibrand 
showroom. 
Available 
at: 
https://europe.autonews.com/article/20171022/ANE/171029966/bmw-
nissan-others-set-aside-rivalry-to-promote-evs-in-multibrand-showroom 
[Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Hetzner, C. 2016. VW mulls robo-taxi service as part of new mobility brand. 
Available 
at: 
http://europe.autonews.com/article/20160928/ANE/160929816/volkswag
en-mulls-launch-of-robo-taxi-service?cciid=email-autonews-blast 
[Accessed: 2 October 2016]. 
Irwin, J. 2016. BMW teams with IBM’s Watson on driver-assist technology. 
Available 
at: 
https://europe.autonews.com/article/20161215/COPY/312159683/bmw-
teams-with-ibm-s-watson-on-driver-assist-technology 
[Accessed: 
23 
January 2019]. 
Krok, A. 2018. VW, Nvidia, Bosch, others team up to suss out the back end of 
autonomy. Available at: https://www.cnet.com/roadshow/news/vw-nvidia-
bosch-nav-alliance-autonomy-networking-standards/ [Accessed: 23 January 
2019]. 
Lambert, F. 2017. VW wants to improve electric car batteries through a quantum 
computer partnership with Google. Electrek 7 November. Available at: 
https://electrek.co/2017/11/07/vw-google-electric-car-batteries-quantum-
computer-partnership/ [Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Manthey, N. 2018. BMW acquires all DriveNow shares from Sixt. Available at: 
https://www.electrive.com/2018/01/29/bmw-acquires-drivenow-shares-
sixt/ [Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 

 
 
McVeigh, P. 2016. Ford, BMW, Daimler, VW Group plan fast-charging EV network. 
Available 
at: 
https://europe.autonews.com/article/20161129/ANE/161129890/ford-
bmw-daimler-vw-group-plan-fast-charging-ev-network 
[Accessed: 
23 
January 2019]. 
Otto, F. et al. 2017. Innovative on-demand shared ride service to launch in Europe: 
Mercedes-Benz Vans sets up joint venture with US start-up Via - Daimler 
Global 
Media 
Site. 
Available 
at: 
https://media.daimler.com/marsMediaSite/en/instance/ko.xhtml?oid=291
03608 [Accessed: 22 January 2019]. 
Randall, C. 2018a. BMW signs agreement with Ganfeng Lithium - electrive.com. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.electrive.com/2018/09/30/bmw-signs-
agreement-with-ganfeng-lithium/ [Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Randall, C. 2018b. Electrify America to enter car sharing. Available at: 
https://www.electrive.com/2018/06/14/electrify-america-to-enter-car-
sharing/ [Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Randall, C. 2019. VW bundles their charging and energy business. Available at: 
https://www.electrive.com/2019/01/08/vw-is-bundling-their-charging-
and-energy-business/ [Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Rory, C.-J. 2016. BMW and Intel to develop robot cars. 1 July. Available at: 
https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-36682595 [Accessed: 23 January 
2019]. 
Rosenthal, T.C. 2018. Mercedes-Benz Vans and BASF agree on cooperation in 
mobility – Starting with Corporate Shuttle by ViaVan. Available at: 
https://media.daimler.com/marsMediaSite/en/instance/ko/Mercedes-
Benz-Vans-and-BASF-agree-on-cooperation-in-mobility--Starting-with-
Corporate-Shuttle-by-ViaVan.xhtml?oid=41289927 [Accessed: 22 January 
2019]. 
Sage, A. 2017. Fiat Chrysler joins BMW, Intel self-driving alliance. Available at: 
https://europe.autonews.com/article/20170816/ANE/170819863/fiat-
chrysler-joins-bmw-intel-self-driving-alliance?cciid=email-autonews-blast 
[Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Sheahan, M. 2017. Volkswagen, Nvidia to cooperate on artificial intelligence | 
Reuters. Available at: http://uk.reuters.com/article/volkswagen-nvidia-
idUKL8N1JO0TI [Accessed: 4 July 2017]. 
Sheahan, M. 2018. VW signs deals for EVs, autonomous driving in China. Available 
at: https://europe.autonews.com/article/20180710/ANE/180719970/vw-
signs-deals-for-evs-autonomous-driving-in-china [Accessed: 23 January 
2019]. 

 
 
Vijayenthiran, V. 2018. Mercedes integrates highly detailed HERE maps in self-
driving 
tech. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.motorauthority.com/news/1115400_mercedes-integrates-
highly-detailed-here-maps-in-self-driving-tech [Accessed: 22 January 2019]. 
Volkswagen Group 2016. Volkswagen and LG agree joint development of an 
innovative 
connected 
car 
platform. 
Available 
at: 
http://www.newspress.co.uk/public/ViewPressRelease.aspx?pr=65997&a
mp;pr_ref=30947 [Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Volkswagen Group 2017. Volkswagen  Group research and automation specialist 
KUKA 
conclude 
new 
cooperation 
contract. 
Available 
at: 
http://www.newspress.co.uk/public/ViewPressRelease.aspx?pr=72612&a
mp;pr_ref=36300 [Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Volkswagen Group 2018. Volkswagen and Microsoft announce strategic 
partnership. 
Available 
at: 
http://www.newspress.co.uk/public/ViewPressRelease.aspx?pr=80343&a
mp;pr_ref=42372 [Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Volkswagen News 2017. Swarm data paves way for autonomous driving: 
Volkswagen 
and 
Mobileye 
sign 
agreement. 
Available 
at: 
http://www.volkswagenag.com/en/news/2017/02/Swarm_data.html 
[Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Werwitzke, C. 2018. Autonomous fleets: VW teams up with Aurora. Available at: 
https://www.electrive.com/2018/01/05/autonomous-fleets-vw-teams-
aurora/ [Accessed: 23 January 2019]. 
Wolde, H. and Wissenbach, I. 2016. BMW, Audi, Mercedes, tech firms form 5G 
alliance 
to 
accelerate 
self-driving 
cars. 
Available 
at: 
https://europe.autonews.com/article/20160927/ANE/160929857/bmw-
audi-mercedes-tech-firms-form-5g-alliance-to-accelerate-self-driving-cars 
[Accessed: 22 January 2019]. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Corporate agency and socio-technical 
transitions: business model innovation 
in transition pathways 
 
Haokun Liu1,*,, Peter Wells2 
 
1,2Cardiff Business School, Cardiff University 
 
*LiuH23@cardiff.ac.uk 
 
Extended abstract  
1. Overview 
It is widely, if not universally, recognised that more sustainable societies will 
necessarily emerge out of processes of transition away from contemporary 
capitalist structures of production and consumption. In order to understand how 
corporate agency may contribute to socio-technical transitions we present a 
theoretical framework that relates business model innovation to transition 
pathways. With a focus on car sharing practice in Europe, our paper aims to 
explore how business model innovation leads to the potential transformation of 
the current automotive systems.  
2. Theoretical framework 
Several attempts to link business model innovation to sustainability have been 
made (Bocken and Short, 2016; Upward and Jones, 2016; Wells, 2016), but causal 
relationships to wider economic and social structures around which greater 
sustainability could be realised need development (Bolton and Hannon, 2016; 
Bidmon and Knab, 2018). Business models are abstractions or sense-making 
frameworks (Skålén et al. 2015) that become modes of communication for 
business and the social actors with which it engages (Frow et al. 2014; Doganova 
and Eyquem-Renault, 2009), and from this become the basis of performative 
actions. Hence, business models describe, communicate and give rise to 

 
 
“…dynamic assemblages of institutions that, through the performative practices 
of actors, reciprocally link and influence technological and market innovation and 
contribute to the viability of these actors and the viability of the service 
ecosystems of which they are a part.” (Wieland et al. 2017). The realisation of 
different business models through operant and operand resources gives rise to 
different outcomes as multiple forms of value proposition and the communication 
of expectations. Only some of the business model innovations will be relevant for 
sustainability transitions, and it is possible that relevant innovations could occur 
with new entrants, incumbents, or substantial ‘new entrants’ from other sectors 
(termed ‘mature entrants’). 
 
Figure 1. Corporate agency and socio-technical transitions: an overview 
Value in all its forms is then co-created through multiple levels in social structures, 
simplified in Figure 1 into three categories that are somewhat analogous to the 
expectation levels defined by Van Lente (1993). At the micro level is the firm itself 
and the actions it takes; at the meso level are networks of organisations, 
industries, and brand communities; and at the macro level are societal structures 
and relationships. The co-creation evolutionary processes at the multiple levels 
can then be understood to offer different degrees of ‘fit’ with socio-technical 
transition pathways that unfold over a protracted period of time. Thus, there is a 
need to shape a more robust theory that allows providing insights into the 
interrelationships between technologies, business models and markets.  
3. Research method 
The data has been collected during the EU-funded project STARS (Shared mobili-
ty opporTunities And challenges foR European citieS) from 2017 to 2018 in a two-
stage process. First, desktop research by the consortium members identified 186 
car sharing organisations from 25 countries in Europe. In each case descriptive 
variables were defined which would allow subsequent categorisation of car 
sharing models.  

 
 
This aggregate data was supplemented by secondary data from academic and non-
academic sources related to shared mobility in general, and car sharing in 
particular from both the European Union markets and more widely. In addition, 
car sharing organisations were surveyed via questionnaire to evaluate operational 
issues such as how long cars were financed, how long they were retained, and how 
they were re-sold into the market. 
4. Preliminary findings 
On the micro level, the research focus is on the interaction between car sharing 
organisations and (non-)users. A broad desktop research on car sharing 
organisations in Europe provides detailed information regarding resource 
integration activities and value proposition offering to the customers. On the 
other hand, the opportunities and potential barriers for customer value co-
creation were seen through in-depth investigation from the car sharing operators.    
On the meso level, the key actors have been identified regarding to the 
involvement of car sharing services, such as car manufacturers, local government, 
and public transport operators. The analysis on this level is based on their 
institutionalisation of a service-based industry, that is, the maintenance, 
disruption and change of the current automotive systems.  
The focus on the macro level of analysis includes long term implications and other 
social impacts on the automotive industry, and actors like car manufacturers, ICT 
companies, and energy companies can be considered as the pivotal actors in the 
transition towards automobility. It is concluded that the substantial emergence of 
car sharing could be triggered by simultaneously actuating around connectivity, 
autonomy, and electrification of the current automotive regimes.  
The current car sharing sales only represent less than 1% of the overall market, 
the transition pathways thus depend on new market opportunities and possible 
landscape factors. Based on the multi-level analysis of car sharing business in 
Europe, the research provides two interchangeable socio-technical transition 
pathways according to the current situation and the possible market formation of 
car sharing services:  
• Reconfiguration: if new market opportunity is small, the new alliance 
between car manufacturers and new entrants could be formed in order to 
provide both products and car sharing services.  

 
 
• Transformation: if new market opportunity is big, car manufacturers will 
modify their core competences to cope with the car sharing services.  
Author agreement  
This paper was supported in part by funding from H2020 Call MG-8.5-2017 Single 
Stage-INEA STARS – Shared mobility opporTunities And challenges foR European 
citieS 
Grant Agreement No. 769513 
Keywords 
Business models; socio-technical transitions; service-dominant logic; value co-
creation; transition pathways 
References 
Bocken, N.M.P. and Short, S.W. (2016) Towards a sufficiency-driven business 
model: Experiences and opportunities, Environmental Innovations and 
Societal Transitions, 18, 41-61. 
Bidmon, C.M. and Knab, S.F. (2018) The three roles of business models in societal 
transitions: New linkages between business model and transition research. 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 178, pp.903-916. 
Bolton, R. and Hannon, M. (2016) Governing sustainability transitions through 
business model innovation: Towards a systems understanding. Research 
policy, 45(9), pp.1731-1742. 
Doganova, L. and Eyquem-Renault, M. (2009) What do business models do? 
Innovation devices in technology entrepreneurship, Research Policy, 38, 
1559- 
Schaltegger, S.; Hansen, E. and Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business Models for 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues, Organization 
& Environment, 29(1), 3–10. 
Skålén, P., Gummerus, J., von Koskull, C. and Magnusson, P.R. (2015) Exploring 
value propositions and service innovation: a service-dominant logic study, 
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 43(2), 137-158. 
Upward, A. and Jones, P. (2016) An Ontology for Strongly Sustainable Business 
Models: Defining an Enterprise Framework Compatible With Natural and 
Social Science, Organization & Environment, (29)1, 97–123. 

 
 
Van Lente, H. (1993) Promising technology: The dynamics of expectations in 
technological development, PhD thesis publication, University of Twente, 
The Netherlands 
Vargo, S.L., Wieland, H. and Akaka, M.A. (2015) Innovation through 
institutionalization: A service ecosystems perspective, Industrial Marketing 
Management, 44, 63-72. 
Wells, P.E. (2013) Business models for sustainability, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar 
Publishing. 
Wells, P. (2016) Economies of Scale Versus Small Is Beautiful: A Business Model 
Approach Based on Architecture, Principles and Components in the Beer 
Industry, Organization & Environment, 29(1), 36-52. 
Wieland, H., Hartmann, N.N. and Vargo, S.L. (2017) Business models as service 
strategy, Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 1-19. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Disruption or collaboration? 
Antecedents of growth for demand response 
business models in Finland 
 
Kangas, Hanna-Liisa1,*, Ruggiero, Salvatore2, Ohrling, Tiina2, Annala, 
Salla3 
1Finnish Environment Institute (SYKE); 2Aalto University, School of 
Business; 3LUT School of Energy Systems, Electrical Engineering 
*hanna-liisa.kangas@ymparisto.fi 
 
Extended Abstract 
The aim of the study 
Our aim is to study what collaboration strategies firms adopt to scale up their 
business models, and especially how they are dealing with the tensions that occur 
with the incumbent actors of the regime. 
Background 
In order for novel sustainable technologies to enhance the socio-technical 
transition towards sustainable production and consumption, they need to be 
introduced to markets and scaled up. According to socio-technical transition 
scholars, scaling-up refers broadly to moving sustainable practices from 
experimentation to mainstream (Van den Bosch and Rotmans, 2008, p. 34). Within 
the transition management literature, the concept of niche upscaling is considered 
one of the key mechanisms that can promote socio-technical change (Bos and 
Brown, 2012). Transition management scholars view the scaling-up of niches as 
the process by which niche innovations are embedded in a socio-technical regime 
(van den Bosch and Rotmans, 2008). 

 
 
In this paper, our aim is to study what strategies firms adopt to scale up their 
business models, and especially how they are dealing with the tensions that occur 
with the incumbent actors of the regime. We utilise the concepts of business 
models for sustainability and socio-technical systems to frame our study 
analytically. Empirically, we study the Finnish demand response (DR) business 
models. In particular, our research questions are: (1) What kind of DR business 
models there are?, (2) What degree of collaboration with incumbents the business 
models adopted imply?, and (3) Are the new business models disrupting the 
energy regime or adapting to it? 
Also in the literature on business models the concept of scaling-up has been widely 
used. In this literature a scalable business model is typically understood as a 
business model that is agile and which provides exponentially increasing returns to 
scale in terms of growth from additional resources applied (Nielsen and Lund, 
2015, p. 4). Bidmon and Knab (2018) and Waes et al. (2018) bring together insights 
from business models and socio-technical transitions. Bidmon and Knab (2018) 
have identified business models as a potential link between the technological 
niche innovations and the socio-technical regime, so that business models can 
facilitate the scaling-up of novel technologies to the regime level and thus enhance 
the transition.  
As the new business models are scaling up they can disrupt the regime (Shahzad, 
Raghu et al. 2016). This causes the newcomers dilemma. Newcomers need to 
create value networks with other actors to establish their disruptive innovation, 
and often this means that they need to network also with incumbents with 
conflicting interests. Thus, the newcomers may need support and cooperation 
from the same incumbents whose technologies, products or business models they 
are disrupting. The disruptor needs a set of transactions, rules, and roles governing 
the arrangements, relationships and interdependencies, especially with 
established incumbents. The whole regime may be reconfigured dynamically due 
to the disrupting innovation (Shahzad, Raghu et al. 2016).  
Disrupter can succeed by limiting incumbents’ hostility and retaliation and by 
establishing symbiotic relationships with them. The simultaneous cooperation and 
competition is called coopetition (Shahzad, Raghu et al. 2016). The balance 
between cooperation and competition changes in time and the disruptor needs to 
adjust their business model accordingly. The emphasis can be turned dynamically 
from disruption to cooperation and value creation with the incumbents. 

 
 
Demand response business models 
The fluctuations in the energy systems have traditionally been balanced by 
changes in the energy production. However, as the share of weather dependable 
renewable energy (e.g. solar PV, solar thermal and wind power) increases in 
energy production, the challenges to balance real-time energy supply and demand 
increase. DR can be a cost-effective, reliable and environmentally sound way to 
add flexibility into the energy systems. Via DR, energy demand can take part in 
balancing the markets and this has the potential to change the operations and 
dynamics of energy regimes in a fundamental way (Rious et al. 2015). DR can be 
applied to both electricity and district heating markets. 
The rapid developments in digitalization have opened up new possibilities for DR 
business models. For example smart grids, virtual power plants and building 
energy use optimization and automation can be utilized in DR. The energy regimes 
and markets are quite traditional, and the power structures between the 
incumbent firms and decision-makers have caused lock-ins, such as expected 
revenue of the government taxes and energy sale revenues (Kangas et al. 2018). 
However, there are important differences between electricity and heat markets. 
Power can be transmitted cost-efficiently longer distances than heat and 
therefore the electricity and district heat systems vary e.g. with respect to their 
market structure, geographical size and actors. District heat markets are always 
local, and often dominated by one or few actors, whereas electricity markets can 
cover large geographic areas and wide variety of producers, distributers and other 
actors. 
The rollout of DR can cause conflicts between the DR newcomers and the 
incumbent energy companies, i.e. energy producers, retailers and distributers. For 
example, the energy retailers fear that DR can cause imbalances for the energy 
system (Annala et al. 2018). This might create financial losses for the retailers 
(Järventausta et al. 2015). However, DR can also bring benefits for the incumbents 
in the energy regime. For example, DR can substitute the need to use the most 
costly-to-run power plants during periods of otherwise high energy demand 
(Järventausta el al. 2015). Thus, DR can contribute to peak shaving during high 
price periods and shift loads to lower price periods, and this can decrease the costs 
of the energy producers.  
 
 

 
 
Preliminary results and conclusions 
Our empirical data consists of 19 semi-structured qualitative interviews with 
Finnish DR companies. Interviews were recorded, transcribed verbatim and coded 
in NVivo 12. We find four main categories of DR business models: (i) district 
heating DR, (ii) electricity use optimisation according to market price, (iii) electricity 
use aggregation in collaboration with electric utilities, and (iv) independent 
electricity use aggregation. 
According to the preliminary results, the district heating DR business models are 
very adaptive to the needs and requirements of the incumbent energy regime 
actors. In addition, the district heating DR companies work in very close 
collaboration with the incumbents. Since the district heating markets are local, the 
DR companies expand to new geographical areas by first finding a local energy 
company as a partner, and then by adapting their business model to fit the energy 
company’s needs.  
The companies whose DR business model is based on electricity use optimisation 
according to market price are also collaborating with the incumbent companies, 
but to a lesser extent than the district heating DR business models. According to 
the preliminary results, there is a tension between the benefits from competition 
and cooperation with the incumbent energy companies. The energy use 
optimisation could technically be done independently from the energy companies, 
but the DR companies are interested of e.g. their customer channels. Thus these 
DR companies are adapting their business models to the needs of the incumbent 
companies, when it’s mutually beneficial. All the studied companies who are 
aggregating energy use in collaboration with electric utilities also optimise 
electricity use according to the market price, and their growth strategies seem to 
align with that of electricity use optimisation. 
The independent electricity use aggregation business model is, according to the 
preliminary results, the least collaborative and the most disruptive DR business 
model in Finland. These companies divide the incumbent energy companies to 
“old-fashioned grey companies” and “frontrunner renewable energy producers”. 
They are competing with the first and to collaborating with the latter ones. These 
business models can take the incumbent energy companies needs into 
consideration in some aspects, but also push for their own agenda and try to 
change the regime in other aspects. 

 
 
None of the studied DR companies have very aggressive and disruptive growth 
strategies and all of them collaborate with the incumbent companies to some 
extent. The interviewees mentioned that all the companies are still very cautious 
and they are not willing to cause too much disruption in the markets yet. However, 
the companies are preparing for a larger scale DR roll-out and they are waiting for 
one company to start the disruption in the regime so they can follow. 
This study offers novel insights into a sustainable technology field that has passed 
the early stages of a technological niche and is scaling up and entering the regime. 
It shows that in this stage the DR business models are not very aggressive, but they 
have the potential and readiness to disrupt the regime. Also, according to this 
study the less competitive and more local heat markets require very collaborative 
DR business models and the more competitive electricity markets allow for more 
competitive and disruptive business models. 
Keywords 
Disruption, collaboration, niche-regime interaction, business model, demand 
response 
References 
Annala, S., Lukkarinen, J., Primmer, E., Honkapuro, S., Ollikka, K., Sunila, K., & 
Ahonen, T. (2018) Regulation as an enabler of demand response in electricity 
markets and power systems. Journal of Cleaner Production 195, 1139-1148. 
Bidmon, C.M., Knab, S.F. (2018) The three roles of business models in societal 
transitions: New linkages between business model and transition research. 
Journal of Cleaner Production 178, 903-916. 
Bos, J.J., Brown, R.R. (2012) Governance experimentation and factors of success in 
socio-technical transitions in the urban water sector. Technological 
Forecasting and Social Change 79, 1340-1353. 
Järventausta, P., Repo, S., Trygg, P., Rautiainen, A., Mutanen, A., Lummi, K., & 
Honkiniemi, M. (2015) Kysynnän jousto− Suomeen soveltuvat käytännön 
ratkaisut ja vaikutukset verkkoyhtiöille (DR pooli): Loppuraportti. Available 
from: 
https://tutcris.tut.fi/portal/fi/publications/kysynnan-jousto--
suomeen-soveltuvat-kaytannoen-ratkaisut-ja-vaikutukset-verkkoyhtioeille-
dr-pooli(d8a7e38d-6533-417e-974c-8399326a55c6).html  
Kangas, H.-L., Lazarevic, D. & Kivimaa, P. (2018) Technical skills, disinterest and 
non-functional regulation: Barriers to building energy efficiency in Finland 
viewed by energy service companies. Energy Policy 114, 63–76. 

 
 
Nielsen, C. & Lund, M. (2015) The Concept of Business Model Scalability. Available 
from: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2575962 
Rious, V., Perez, Y. & Roques, F. (2015) Which electricity market design to en-
courage the development of demand response? Economic Analysis and 
Policy 48, 128–138. 
Shahzad, A., Raghu, G. & Arun, K. (2016) The disruptor's dilemma: TiVo and the 
U.S. television ecosystem. Strategic Management Journal 37(9), 1829-1853. 
van den Bosch, S. & Rotmans, J. (2008) Deepening, broadening and scaling up: A 
framework  for  steering  transition experiments.  Knowledge Centre for 
Sustain-able System Innovations and Transitions, TNO Strategy and Policy. 
Available from: https://repub.eur.nl/pub/15812/   
van Waes, A., Farla, J., Frenken, K., de Jong, Jeroen P J, Raven, R. (2018) Business 
model innovation and socio-technical transitions. A new prospective 
framework with an application to bike sharing. Journal of Cleaner Production 
195, 1300-1312 
 

 
 
Local business models in transition   
 
Kliem, Daniel*,1,2 
 
1University of applied Science St Gallen; 2University of Bergen 
 
*Daniel.kliem@fhsg.ch  
 
Abstract 
Transitioning towards circular economies has become a dominant paradigm in 
western societies. Public policies attempt to accelerate transitions, but often the 
results fall behind expectations or are accompanied with unintended 
consequences. To improve the governance of transition towards sustainability, we 
propose a better understanding of barriers and leverages to transitions. This 
project identifies business models as a relevant unit of analysis, as they describe 
the dominant logic of an industry. By improving the understanding at the 
crossroads of public policies and business models, we aim at improving the 
governance of sustainability transitions.   
Building on a case study on the swiss construction material industry, we 
investigate the dynamics that help understanding the role of business models in 
industry transitions. We find that resource utilization of linear business models 
conflicts with the diffusion of business models for circularity.  Using a system 
dynamics approach, we identify central feedback loops of business model 
dynamics that counteract policies. These feedback mechanisms are captured in 
qualitative model and contain key decision criteria of several distinct business 
models. During the workshops with company managers, several lessons have been 
learned. Firstly, the visualization of dynamics processes helps managers to identify 
strategic challenges to their business model. Secondly, public policies can be 
improved by leveraging business models’ insights. Improved understanding of 
dominant, but unsustainable, business model utilization of key resources, 
enhances the design of effective policies. 

 
 
This research delivers insights into dynamics forming barriers to circular business 
models, challenging mental models and stimulating rethinking of current business 
model practices. 
Extended abstract  
Problem 
Societal concerns over sustainability related issues increasingly manifest in 
changes to regulations and adjustments in public policies, altering the 
environment of organizations. Depending on the fit between the organizations 
business model and the changes in its environment, adaptations to business 
models can be crucial to a company's survival (Schaltegger et al., 2016). Even 
though understanding of the dynamics of business model environments appears 
urgent, most business model analysis is static and dynamics are neglected 
(Sterman, 2000; Cosenz and Noto, 2018). An isolated view on a business models 
narrows the focus down to the internal perspective, making them vulnerable to 
external dynamics. A static view can ignore threats to the long-term survival of a 
business model. Regarding the strategic development of business models in such 
a volatile environment, managerial challenges deal with the (1) detection of 
relevant policy developments and the (2) dynamic implications on their business 
models. While sustainability is the agenda of most organizations, tools and 
techniques to incorporate relevant perspectives in business models are rare. 
Combining a systemic and organizational perspective on the integration of 
sustainability into business models has been proposed (Stubbs and Cocklin, 2008), 
but have so far avoided a dynamic perspective.  Abdelkafi and Täuscher (2016) 
provide an account for a dynamic perspective one business model for 
sustainability, but do not consider the industry wide impact. So far, most studies 
appear to focus on either a purely business model centred perspective, or a public 
policy centred. I argue that a systemic understanding of these dimensions is 
required to accelerate sustainability transitions.  
Hypotheses 
“A dynamic understanding of business models and their regulatory environment 
improves governance towards more sustainable production and consumption 
systems. “ 
 
 

 
 
The following research questions are addressed in this research: 
1) Which public policy exercise dynamic influence on business models? 
2) How can regulatory dynamics accelerate the development of sustainable 
business models? 
 
Methodology 
The system of interest exercises non-linear dynamics, contains multiple feedbacks, 
exercises time delays and is complex. As a methodology, System Dynamics 
captures these dynamics features and enables quantitative simulation of potential 
pathways (Köhler et al., 2018).  Since the focus is not only on business models, but 
also on the dynamics between business models and their environment, relevant 
policy mechanisms need to be elicited. Research into sustainable business model 
dynamics has begun to address questions of such multi-level perspectives  
(Abdelkafi and Täuscher, 2016; Täuscher and Abdelkafi, 2016). In the context of 
sustainability transitions, System dynamics offers distinct benefits in relation to 
social learning and systemic understanding (Köhler et al., 2018).  
Within the swiss construction material industry, this research focuses on mineral 
materials along the value chain from extraction to demolition. A case study with 
10 companies is used to (1) identify representative business models and (2) 
understand potential implications of external dynamics on business models. 
Representative business models conceptualize a set of dominant business, 
describing prominent logics. I combine these logics with a resource-based view on 
business models, providing a systemic description of the status quo. Using a 
resource based view on business models, has been proposed to reduce complexity 
and capture relevant performance indicators (Steininger et al., 2011).  
Data collection 
In a series of three workshops, (WS1) the business model was described, (WS2) 
dynamic environments described and (WS3) individual strategies in relation to 
individual problems discussed. In WS1, business models were translated into 
representative business model, with idealtypical characteristics, such as the key 
resource, value generation and value proposition. Using Upward and Jones (2016) 
Business model canvas, the workshops identified sustainability dimensions 
beyond financial value propositions, and captured impacts on wider 

 
 
communicates of stakeholders. Thereby, sustainability dimensions beyond the 
traditional perspective of Osterwalder (2010) are identified.  
In a second workshop, we discussed problems and challenges that originated from 
the societal and regulatory environment. These challenges were captured within 
a Stock and Flow diagram, that present the organizations narrative. This Stock and 
Flow model characterized a problem relevant to the participating companies. It 
was used as a boundary object in the discussion with managers, where 
participants can challenge the model assumptions and run mental simulations 
(Black, 2013). Since these models were developed iteratively, the visual object 
worked as a basis for dynamic, qualitative simulation.  
Results 
Two different business models are identified, based on their value generation 
mechanisms in relation to their key resource. Essentially, business model 
“Recycling” competes with business model “Extraction” compete on the same 
market, but due to the external dynamics there is a dominance of “extraction”.  
We ran mental simulations of different scenarios and find that both business 
models gradually shift towards closed material loops, but the "recycling" business 
model aims at a higher value creation (upcycling). A persistent dominance of the 
model extraction is largely based on financially viable access to key resources and 
relatively low processing costs. “Recycling” on the other hand, appeared as a most 
cost-intense process, faced with larger regulations, standards and norms. Without 
favourable policy conditions, “recycling” is not able to compete with “extraction” 
activities. From a policy perspective, we identified several steering mechanisms. 
Naturally, the concession of natural resources is a leverage point that currently 
plays in the factor of traditional business models. The political relevance of access 
to resources as well as the provision of disposal sites results in continuous access 
to land and resources. Based upon different reactions to external dynamics, we 
discuss the utilization of key resource and the business model’s future-fit. 
Discussion 
To reduce the dependency on external companies to handle the disposal of 
excavation material, companies are expanding their operations as part of their 
business model. Construction site logistics and deconstruction services appeared 
as dominant additions to business model to internalize services. Thereby, 

 
 
elementary conditions for circular economies are improved, such as quality 
assurance or recycled goods and improved separation abilities. Key barriers to a 
transition were found in the long-term access to primary resources, price 
sensitivities, recycling costs and diverse quality perceptions. 
Participants suggested public procurement as a form of market-based policy 
approach to stimulate the uptake of recycling rates. While such stimulation helps 
to form a basic demand for products, no impact on business models was achieved. 
More fundamental stimulation of desirable business model practices emerged 
from land-use policies and waste management policies emerged as central 
themes, as limiting access to key resources challenges the value generation 
mechanism of business model “extraction”. Furthermore, the public discourse on 
circular products appeared to challenge the business model “extraction”, pushing 
for implementation of concepts for more sustainable business models. These 
sustainable business models are more inclusive by providing value to a greater 
circle of stakeholders such as the local communities (Stubbs and Cocklin, 2008). 
Whereas these adjustments increase the benefits to society, we find no 
fundamental changes to the business models. While the construction industry is 
quite static and has not developed substantial innovation to either products, nor 
business models, it is worth mentioning the overarching agreement on more 
sustainable practices. Here we propose that leadership and willingness to innovate 
are key to transition towards circularity (Elkington and Upward, 2016). Even 
though learnings for the managers indicate that the dependency on access to 
mineral resources forms a long-term bottleneck, the correlation between material 
flows and profitability has not been challenged by participants. This is a 
remarkable observation, where most participants stated that material turnover 
needs to increase to remain profitable. The discussion highlighted that closing 
material loops is profitable but did not challenge the underlying assumptions on 
whether the size of the circle matters.  
Conclusion 
The study paints a clear picture of business models that will face substantial 
challenges in the future, highlighting the relevance of continuous assessment of 
current business models and challenging of managerial assumptions. Training the 
mental models is a key aspect to future fit organizations, as it enhances innovation 
potential and the ability to assess developments external to organisations. 
Comparing the managerial time horizons with the long-term developments of a 
dynamics environment, we found central dissonance. This indicates a central 

 
 
challenge to most sustainability inactivates, namely the clashing interest between 
management and consequences on the environment. Challenging value 
generation mechanisms within organizations appears to be a central stepping 
stone on the road towards circularity, while at the same time knowledge on the 
decision-making behind business model provides policy makers with leverage. The 
theoretical contribution of this study lies within the empirical value of integrating 
a business model perspective on the realm of sustainability transitions 
governance.  
Keywords 
Transition, circularity, barriers, ecosystem, mental model 
References 
Abdelkafi, N. and Täuscher, K. 2016. Business Models for Sustainability From a 
System Dynamics Perspective. Organization & Environment. 29(1), pp.74–
96. 
Black, L.J. 2013. When visuals are boundary objects in system dynamics work. 
System Dynamics Review. 29(2), pp.70–86. 
Cosenz, F. and Noto, G. 2018. A dynamic business modelling approach to design 
and experiment new business venture strategies. Long Range Planning. 
51(1), pp.127–140. 
Elkington, R. and Upward, A. 2016. Leadership as Enabling Function for Flourishing 
by Design. Journal of Global Responsibility. 7, pp.1–21. 
Köhler, J., De Haan, F., Holtz, G., Kubeczko, K., Moallemi, E., Papachristos, G. and 
Chappin, E. 2018. Modelling sustainability transitions: An assessment of 
approaches and challenges. Jasss. 21(1). 
Osterwalder, A. 2010. The Business Model Canvas: Instruction manual. Book. (1), 
pp.94105–94105. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Hansen, E.G. 2016. Business Models for 
Sustainability: A Co-Evolutionary Analysis of Sustainable Entrepreneurship, 
Innovation, and Transformation. Organization & Environment. 29(264–289), 
pp.1086026616633272-. 
Steininger, D.M., Huntgeburth, J.C. and Veit, D.J. 2011. Conceptualizing Business 
Models for Competitive Advantage Research by Integrating the Resource 
and Market-Based Views In: AMCIS 2011 Proceedings [Online]., pp.1–12. 
Available from: http://aisel.aisnet.org/amcis2011_submissions/286. 
Sterman, J.D. 2000. Systems Thinking and Modeling for a Complex World [Online]. 
Available from: http://www.lavoisier.fr/notice/frJWOAR6SA23WLOO.html. 

 
 
Stubbs, W. and Cocklin, C. 2008. Conceptualizing a ‘Sustainable Business Model’. 
Organization & Environment. 21(2), pp.103–127. 
Täuscher, K. and Abdelkafi, N. 2016. Modelling the Lean Startup : A Simulation 
Tool for Entrepreneurial Growth Decisions In: Model-Based Strategy 
Assessment in Virtual Environments for Sustainable Entrepreneurship. 
Upward, A. and Jones, P. 2016. An Ontology for Strongly Sustainable Business 
Models: Defining an Enterprise Framework Compatible With Natural and 
Social Science. Organization & Environment. 29(1), pp.97–123. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Reorganizing systems and delivering 
sustainable transition: Business 
models that solve social and 
environmental problems 
 
Krzysztof Dembek1,2, Jodi York2 
1Centre for Social Impact Swinburne University, Australia; 2University 
of Melbourne, Australia 
 
Abstract 
Some new sustainable business models open paths for sustainable transition by 
simultaneously addressing interlinked social and environmental problems. In 
order to succeed in delivering such transitions, they must reorganize the systems 
that create and maintain these problems. In this study we take a systemic 
perspective to explore how business models addressing social and environmental 
problems use activity system content and structure, and different value creation 
logics to deliver sustainability transitions. Based on the analysis of eight business 
models addressing issues related to poverty and environmental degradation we 
found a three-layer, nested structure with multiple value creation logics. 
Additionally, we discuss a series of identified success factors that govern the way 
in which these models operate to deliver sustainability transition. 
Keywords 
sustainable business models, sustainable transition, problem solving, systems 

 
 
Specific Challenges of Business Models 
for Sustainability Solution Ecosystems  
 
Julia Planko1,*, Inge Oskam1  
1Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences 
 
*j.planko@hva.nl 
 
Extended abstract  
This paper explores the specific challenges of business models for 'sustainability 
solution ecosystems' that accelerate sustainability transitions. We coined the term 
'sustainability solution ecosystem' to describe innovation ecosystems that provide 
a sustainability solution, which is often based on a combination of sustainability 
technologies and services, and offered by collaborating actors. The term is a 
combination of 'solution ecosystem' and 'sustainability innovation ecosystem'.  
A solution ecosystem is an integrated ecosystem “that capitalizes on advances in 
technology and business practices to deliver novel solutions which tackle societal 
problems” (Eggers & Macmillan, 2013, p. 198). A sustainability solution aims at 
solving a sustainability problem, such as climate change, environmental 
degradation, overuse of resources, or other societal problems. Since these 
sustainability problems are 'wicked problems' they usually cannot be solved by 
one public or private actor, but they require the collaboration of many diverse 
actors (Kemp & Loorbach, 2003; Waddock, 2013).  
The term 'innovation ecosystem' describes the ecosystem around a new 
technology in which it can flourish. The transition literature describes how 
innovative actors collaborate in innovation ecosystems to implement 
sustainability innovations and thereby accelerate sustainability transitions. 
Innovation ecosystems are the relationships of actors such as private firms and 
public organizations, which are formed with the goal to enable technology 
development and innovation. These actors include businesses, government actors 
and NGOs, research institutions, and user groups (Markard and Truffer, 2008; 

 
 
Jackson, 2011; Oh et al., 2014). They collaborate not only to develop the new 
sustainability technology, but moreover to change legislation and achieve the 
socio-cultural changes that enable the new technology to be widely implemented; 
such as changes in legislation, in user-behavior, in awareness, and in the education 
system (Musiolik & Markard, 2011; Planko, Cramer, Chappin, & Hekkert, 2016). A 
healthy innovation ecosystem helps a sustainability solution to succeed in the 
market, and ultimately contributes to a sustainability transition.  
Inter-organizational networks can pro-actively build up a supportive innovation 
ecosystem, in which their sustainability solution can prosper. To build this 
innovation ecosystem, they need a lot of resources. In addition to the individual 
resources they contribute, they also have to create so called ‘system-resources’. 
System-resources are resources that are co-created by ecosystem actors and to 
which all ecosystem actors have access (Musiolik, Markard, & Hekkert, 2012). This 
could be for example crucial infrastructure, standardization, legitimacy of the new 
technology, raised user awareness, or changes in the education system (Planko et 
al., 2016).  
Sustainability solution ecosystems face several specific challenges with regard to 
their business models, as compared to traditional business models (Osterwalder, 
Pigneur, & Tucci, 2005; Zott, Amit, & Massa, 2010) or business models for 
commercial ecosystems (Adner, 2017). Sustainable business models take on a 
systems perspective and aim to generate value across the value network (Stubbs 
and Cocklin, 2008; Bocken et al., 2014). While they apply a multi-stakeholder 
approach with regards to value creation for different stakeholder groups, they are 
usually centred around a focal firm (Bocken, Rana and Short, 2015). Some authors 
stress the collaborative element (Rohrbeck, Konnertz and Knab, 2013). We 
contribute to this field the innovation ecosystem perspective, of a network of 
actors that collaborates closely to deliver a sustainability solution, often a product-
service combination, creating benefits for one or several stakeholder groups. 
The aim of this paper is to shed more light on the specific challenges of business 
models for sustainability solution ecosystems. In the following, we will describe 
two main challenges: one is related to value creation and value capture, one is 
related to value distribution. 
First, the challenge related to value creation and value capture: As opposed to 
traditional business models where an individual company or a focal company in a 
network or supply chain provides a product or service, in sustainability solution 

 
 
ecosystems, inter-organizational networks of public and private actors co-create 
and co-provide a solution which often consists of a product-service combination. 
This sustainability solution provides several forms of value to different stakeholder 
groups. For example, the solution of intra-city congestion will benefit commuters 
as they have to spend less time in their cars, it will benefit environmental NGOs as 
less CO2 is emitted and it will benefit the local inhabitants of the formerly 
congested road by decreased noise pollution. Solution ecosystems often create 
different types of value, in the form of commercial products and public goods. 
Different mechanisms of value capture are necessary to capture value from public 
goods than from consumer goods (Eggers & Macmillan, 2013). Therefore, business 
models for sustainability solution ecosystems need to comprise different forms of 
value capture for the different forms of value they create for different stakeholder 
groups. 
RQ1: How do business models for sustainability solution ecosystems comprise 
different forms of value capture of the value created for different stakeholder 
groups? 
 
Second, the challenge related to value distribution: To build a healthy innovation 
ecosystem for their sustainability solution, and to achieve the systemic changes 
that are necessary, ecosystem actors have to invest their individual resources not 
only into the development of the product or service they contribute, but also into 
the development of system-resources. In order for ecosystem actors to be 
incentivized to invest their resources into the building of the innovation 
ecosystem, the creation of system-resources should be incorporated into the 
business model of the sustainability solution ecosystem. In emerging solution 
ecosystems, actors provide individual resources to co-create system-resources. 
Adner (2017, p.29) suggests that with regards to business models, strategy 
frameworks will change when resources “exist not at the level of the firm, but at 
the level of the ecosystem”. Related to system-resources in innovation 
ecosystems, we expect that conflicts can arise when some actors are able to 
capture more value from system-resources than others that had invested the 
same or a bigger amount of firm resources into building them. We therefore argue 
that business models for sustainability solution ecosystems should not only 
address the capturing of value, but also a fair distribution of value captured 
amongst system actors. This is especially important because value capture and 
distribution also has an impact on the roles actors take on in an ecosystem, and 
how they will be connected (Jacobides, Cennamo, & Gawer, 2018).  

 
 
RQ2: How can ecosystem actors ensure a fair distribution of value captured from 
system-resources? 
To answer these questions, we will explore the empirical cases of two 
sustainability solution ecosystems in the Netherlands. For each of the cases, we 
will conduct semi-structured interviews with key actors of the respective solution 
ecosystem. We will analyse the interviews with focus on system-resources, value 
capture at the ecosystem level and value distribution. We will then compare our 
findings to the literature on sustainable business models (e.g. Boons and Lüdeke-
Freund, 2013; Rohrbeck, Konnertz and Knab, 2013; Bocken et al., 2014; Jonker, 
2015; Schaltegger, Hansen and Lüdeke-Freund, 2016; Geissdoerfer, M., 
Vladimirova, D., & Evans, 2018; Ritala, P., Huotari, P., Bocken, N., Albareda, L., & 
Puumalainen, 2018). 
We expect that many elements of business models described in the literature will 
also be relevant for sustainability solution ecosystems. However, we expect to find 
differences with regards to value capture and value distribution.  
To conclude, this paper explored the peculiarities of business models for 
sustainability solution ecosystems. It contributes to business model literature in 
connecting the micro-level of managerial decisions with the macro-level 
perspective of systemic change for sustainability transitions. 
Keywords 
sustainability solution ecosystems; innovation ecosystems; sustainability 
transitions; business models 
References 
Adner, R. (2017). Ecosystem as Structure: An Actionable Construct for Strategy. 
Journal of Management, 43(1), 39–58.  
Bocken, N. M. P., Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014). A literature and practice 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 65, 42–56.  
Bocken, N. M. P., Rana, P. and Short, S. W. (2015) ‘Value mapping for sustainable 
business thinking’, Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering. Taylor 
& Francis, 32(1), pp. 88–102. doi: 10.1080/21681015.2014.1000399. 

 
 
Boons, F., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013). Business models for sustainable innovation: 
State-of-the-art and steps towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 45, 9–19.  
Eggers, W. D., & Macmillan, P. (2013). The Solution Revolution: How Business, 
Government, and Social Enterprises Are Teaming Up to Solve Society’s 
Toughest Problems. Boston: Harvard Businsess Review Press. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D., & Evans, S. (2018) ‘Sustainable business model 
innovation: 
A 
review’, 
Journal 
of 
cleaner 
production. 
doi: 
doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.240. 
Jackson, D. J. (2011). What is an Innovation Ecosystem? Arlington, VA: National 
Science Foundation. 
Jacobides, M. G., Cennamo, C., & Gawer, A. (2018). Towards a theory of 
ecosystems. Strategic Management Journal, 39(8), 2255–2276.  
Jonker, J. (2015). Going One’s Own Way : Drivers in Developing Business Models 
for Sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 43(June), 1–36.  
Kemp, R., & Loorbach, D. (2003). Governance for Sustainability Through Transition 
Management. In EAEPE 2003 Conference (pp. 1–27). Maastricht. 
Markard, J., & Truffer, B. (2008). Actor-oriented analysis of innovation systems: 
exploring micro–meso level linkages in the case of stationary fuel cells. 
Technology Analysis & Strategic Management, 20(4), 443–464.  
Musiolik, J., & Markard, J. (2011). Creating and shaping innovation systems: 
Formal networks in the innovation system for stationary fuel cells in 
Germany. Energy Policy, 39, 1909–1922. 
Musiolik, J., Markard, J., & Hekkert, M. P. (2012). Networks and network resources 
in technological innovation systems: Towards a conceptual framework for 
system building. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 79(6), 1032–
1048.  
Oh, D. S., Phillips, F., Park, S., & Lee, E. (2014). Innovation ecosystems: A critical 
examination. Technovation, 54, 1–6.  
Osterwalder, A., Pigneur, Y., & Tucci, C. L. (2005). Clarifying Business Models: 
Origins, Present, and Future of the Concept. Communications of the 
Association for Information Systems. Communications of the Association for 
Information Systems, 16(16), 751–775.  
Planko, J., Cramer, J. M., Chappin, M. M. H., & Hekkert, M. P. (2016). Strategic 
collective system building to commercialize sustainability innovations. 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 112, 2328–2341.  
Ritala, P., Huotari, P., Bocken, N., Albareda, L., & Puumalainen, K. (2018) 
‘Sustainable business model adoption among S&P 500 firms: A longitudinal 
content analysis study’, Journal of cleaner production, 170, pp. 216–226. 

 
 
Rohrbeck, R., Konnertz, L., & Knab, S. (2013). Collaborative business modelling for 
systemic and sustainability innovations. International Journal of Technology 
Management, 63(1/2), 4.  
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. G., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016). Business Models for 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues. Organization 
and Environment, 29(1), 3–10.  
Stubbs, W. and Cocklin, C. (2008) ‘Conceptualizing a “sustainability business 
model”’, Organization and Environment, 21(2), pp. 103–127. doi: 
10.1177/1086026608318042. 
Waddock, S. (2013). The Wicked Problems of Global Sustainability Need Wicked 
(Good) Leaders and Wicked (Good) Collaborative Solutions. Journal of 
Management for Global Sustainability, 1(1), 91–111.  
Zott, C., Amit, R., & Massa, L. (2010). The business model: Theoretical roots, recent 
developments, and future research. IESE Research Papers, 3, 1–43.  

 
 
Systematic Literature Review 
Business Models and inter-organizational 
collaboration 
 
Ivan Riumkin1*, Dr. Maria Bengtsson1, Dr. Herman Stål1,  
1Umeå School of Business, Economics, and Statistics 
 
*Corresponding author: ivan.riumkin@umu.se 
 
Extended abstract  
Background  
The business model has proven to be a valuable concept for understanding not 
only how different firms do business (Teece, 2010) but also new avenues for 
innovation (Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002; Martins, Rindova, & Greenbaum, 
2015), including innovation for sustainability (Bocken et al., 2014b; Boons & 
Lüdeke-Freund, 2013). Innovation for sustainability in terms of creating 
sustainable business models seems central for sustainability transition as 
implementation of sustainable business models is likely to have an impact beyond 
the focal firm, by affecting the value-system that a firm is embedded win (Boons 
& Lüdeke-Freund, 2013). However, most empirical research has explored 
sustainable business models by focusing on single firms (Hellström, Tsvetkova, 
Gustafsson, & Wikström, 2015). Thus, we know less about how firms influence 
each other in the development and implementation of sustainable business 
models.  
However, the conventional business model literature has amassed a significant 
body of knowledge regarding interplay between firms, for instance collaboration, 
that should be relevant when seeking to fill this gap. A business model-perspective 
on collaboration seems a good starting point for understanding better how 
business models have impacts beyond single firms. 

 
 
Purpose 
Therefore, we conduct a systematic literature review on collaborative dimensions 
of firms’ business models to take stock of the research done in this area. Our 
synthesis of the field will pave the way for further advances of collaborative 
dimensions of sustainable business models and their role for sustainability 
transition. This literature review is a work in progress and in this abstract, we 
present some tentative findings that are likely to be revised and clarified during 
the process of the review. 
Methods 
Methodologically, this study is a systematic literature review. A transparent 
account of the steps undertaken during the review, as well as a comprehensive 
and unbiased overview of the field are integral parts of a systematic review as 
opposed to other types of reviews (Tranfield, Denyer, & Smart, 2003). While 
conducting this study we follow four reviewing steps prescribed by Rousseau, 
Manning, and Denyer, (2008) namely: 1 Question Formulation: Reflection, Debate, 
and Reformulation; 2 Comprehensive Identification of Relevant Research; 3: 
Organizing and Interpreting; 4 Synthesis. The work on this literature review is 
ongoing, namely at step 2 where, as a result of initial search, we have identified a 
total of 1902 peer reviewed articles across the accredited databases ISI Web of 
Knowledge's Social Sciences Citation Index, SCOPUS, and Ebsco Business Source 
Premier. To capture relevant works, we, after several rounds of test runs and 
discussions among the three researchers, settled on the following search terms: 
“Collaboration”, “Ecosystem”, “Boundary spanning”, “Co-creation”, “Coopetition” 
and “Sharing Economy” (one-by-one combined with “Business Model”). As 
flexibility is important for conducting a high quality systematic literature review 
(Rousseau, Manning, & Denyer, 2008) we, after peer comments consequently 
revised the search terms and added “network”, “alliance”, and “value chain” to 
the search terms. 
After performing a cursory screening of the articles by reading titles, key words 
and abstracts, we found that a significant part of the articles treat business model 
concept in a trivial way or apply it in a superficial way. Therefore, we restricted our 
search further by following the elimination procedures of two prominent 
literature reviews on business models conducted by Massa, Tucci and Afuah 
(2017) and Zott, Amit and Massa (2011). Thus, we restricted our search to leading 
academic journals in management and other management journals where 
important business model-research has been published. Further, we also included 

 
 
those sustainability-journals that have had hosted most of the debate on 
Sustainable Business Models. This list includes: Academy of Management Journal 
(AMJ), Academy of Management Review (AMR), Administrative Science Quarterly 
(ASQ), Journal of Management (JOM), Journal of Management Studies (JMS), 
Management Science (MS), MIS Quarterly, Organization Science (OS), Strategic 
Entrepreneurship Journal (SEJ), Strategic Management Journal (SMJ), Industrial 
and Corporate Change (ICC), Research Policy, Long Range Planning (LRP), 
Technovation, Journal of Business Ethics (JOBE), Journal of Cleaner Production, 
Business and Society, Energy Policy.  
Furthermore, to be more inclusive we enriched this list with some top journals in 
Management and Business that are highly ranked in Web of Science and Scopus 
databases: Academy of management annals, International journal of management 
reviews, Journal of international business studies, Journal of supply chain 
management, Tourism management, Annual Review of Organizational Psychology 
and Organizational Behaviour, Journal of The Academy of Marketing Science, 
Journal of Marketing, Journal of Service research, Journal of interactive marketing, 
Entrepreneurship theory and Practice. 
Moreover, as we identified during our initial screening that Information 
Technology related journals often do deal with Business Model in the way we were 
interested in we also included all IT related journals. The review is currently in 
progress where we proceed to screen the articles further and conduct initial 
thematic analysis. 
Tentative findings 
In the process of screening the articles, were we started with the most cited work, 
we have so far preliminary identified the following four themes: 
Business models in Platforms literature (Rochet & Tirole, 2003;) where business 
models serve to design connections between different sides of the platform where 
one or several sides are “courted” and other sides provide revenues for the 
platform. In this sense collaboration between platform sides are crucial for the 
overall value creation logic.   
Coopetition based business models (Ritala & Sainio, 2014; Ritala, Golnam, & 
Wegmann, 2014) appear often in conjunction with platforms, and IT related issues 
and may consequently be more of a sub-theme. 

 
 
Collaborative consumption and Sharing Economy (Kathan, Matzler, & Veider, 
2016; Pedersen, & Netter, 2013) where collaboration and sharing among actors 
involved in the business model is central for creating value that satisfies mutual 
needs of those actors. 
Open Business Models (Chesbrough, 2007; Weiblen, 2014) where the overall value 
creation logics depends upon collaborative relationships between a firm and its 
ecosystem.  
Possible research implications 
As mentioned, compared to many other approaches to sustainability in business, 
sustainable business models have a major advantage: implementation of 
sustainable business models is likely to have an impact beyond the focal firm, by 
affecting the value system that the firm is embedded in (Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 
2013). This is because changing ones value creation oftentimes also entails 
changing how one works with partners, suppliers and customers. While the value 
system can be a barrier to innovation (Tukker, 2015), if innovation succeeds it will 
likely also change that wider system (Stål, 2018). But the majority of empirical 
research has so far focused on sustainable business models by focusing on single 
firms (Hellström, Tsvetkova, Gustafsson, & Wikström, 2015), and also understand 
business models primarily as properties of single firms. Hence, new approaches to 
designing business models that take into account different dimensions of 
collaboration have nearly not been investigated at all. We also do not know how 
innovation can spread in the business system via collaborative activities, via which 
businesses can influence each other. With this in mind, our review will facilitate 
further advancement of sustainable business model literature where 
collaboration plays a crucial role in system level changes, which are necessary for 
sustainability transition of society. 
Keywords 
Literature review, Business models, Collaboration, Sustainable business models. 
References 
Bocken, N. M. P., Short, S. W., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014b). A literature and 
practice review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal 
of Cleaner Production, 65, 42–56.  

 
 
Boons, F., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013). Business models for sustainable innovation: 
state-of-the-art and steps towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 45, 9–19.  
Chesbrough, H. W. (2007). Why Companies Should Have Open Business Models. 
MIT Sloan Management Review, 48(2), 22–28. 
Chesbrough, H., & Rosenbloom, R. S. (2002). The Role of the Business Model in 
Capturing Value from Innovation : Evidence from Xerox Corporation’s 
Technology Spinoff Companies. Industrial and Corporate Change, 11(3), 
529–555.  
Hellström, M., Tsvetkova, A., Gustafsson, M., & Wikström, K. (2015). Collaboration 
mechanisms for business models in distributed energy ecosystems. Journal 
of Cleaner Production, 102, 226–236.  
Kathan, W., Matzler, K., & Veider, V. (2016). The sharing economy: Your business 
model's friend or foe?. Business Horizons, 59(6), 663-672. 
Martins, L., Rindova, V. P., & Greenbaum, B. E. (2015). Unlocking the hidden value 
of concepts: a cognitive approach to business model innovation. Strategic 
Entrepreneurship Journal, 9, 99–117.  
Massa, L., Tucci, C. L., & Afuah, A. (2017). A critical assessment of business model 
research. Academy of Management Annals, 11(1), 73-104. 
Pedersen, E. R. G., & Netter, S. (2015). Collaborative consumption: business model 
opportunities and barriers for fashion libraries. Journal of Fashion Marketing 
and Management, 19(3), 258-273. 
Ritala, P., & Sainio, L. M. (2014). Coopetition for radical innovation: technology, 
market and business-model perspectives. Technology Analysis & Strategic 
Management, 26(2), 155-169. 
Ritala, P., Golnam, A., & Wegmann, A. (2014). Coopetition-based business models: 
The case of Amazon.com. Industrial Marketing Management, 43(2), 236-
249. 
Rochet, J.C. & Tirole, J. (2003). Platform competition in two‐sided markets. Journal 
of the european economic association, 1(4), pp.990-1029. 
Rousseau, D.M., Manning, J. & Denyer, D. (2008), “Evidence in management and 
organizational science: assembling the field’s full weight of scientific 
knowledge through syntheses”, The Academy of Management Annals, Vol. 
2 No. 1, pp. 475-515. 
Stål, H. (2018). Business Models based on Strongly Sustainable Entrepreneurship: 
Insights from a systematic literature review. In Bonnedahl & Heikkurinen 
(Eds.) Strongly Sustainable Socities. Routledge, Earthscan, UK.  
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a “Sustainability Business 
Model.” Organization & Environment, 21(2), 103–127. 

 
 
Teece, D. J. (2010). Business Models, Business Strategy and Innovation. Long 
Range Planning, 43(2–3), 172–194 
Tukker, A. (2015). Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy - 
a review. Journal of Cleaner Production, 97(76–91).  
Tranfield, D., Denyer, D., & Smart, P. (2003). Towards a methodology for 
developing evidence‐informed management knowledge by means of 
systematic review. British journal of management, 14(3), 207-222. 
Weiblen, T. (2014). The Open Business Model: Understanding an Emerging 
Concept. Journal of Multi Business Model Innovation and Technology, 2(1), 
35–66. 
Zott, C., Amit, R., & Massa, L. (2011). The business model: recent developments 
and future research. Journal of management, 37(4), 1019-1042. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Taking a business model perspective 
to establish sustainable urban water 
management practices on municipal 
level 
 
Claudia Hohmann1,3,*, Bernhard Truffer2,3, Thomas Hillenbrand1 
 
 
1Fraunhofer Institute for Systems and Innovation Research ISI;  
2Cirus, EAWAG; 3Universiteit Utrecht  
 
*claudia.hohmann@isi.fraunhofer.de 
 
Extended abstract  
Keywords 
Business model perspective, urban water management, socio-technical 
infrastructure system, sustainability transition, municipalities 
Problem 
Humans intervene largely in the natural water cycle and related ecosystems (Haan 
et al., 2015). Results are global concerns about the availability of water resources 
and implications for human intervention (Pahl-Wostl et al., 2013; Thomas and 
Ford, 2005). Partly due to the United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals (UN 
SDG) on Water (SDG-6), attention to the role of urban water management (UWM) 
for sustainable development has increased (Larsen et al., 2016). As part of the core 
urban infrastructure system, UWM plays a key role for sustainable development 
in urban areas (Truffer et al., 2010). The role of UWM is to provide (drinking) 
water, treat wastewater, control water pollution, and manage storm water for 
flood control. Depending on the geographical location, socio-technical UWM 
systems differ: In OECD countries, the well-established socio-technical system of 

 
 
UWM relies on "investment-intensive, usually underground, pipe networks that 
provide single-quality drinking water and evacuate stormwater and wastewater" 
(Larsen et al., 2016: 928). Current and future challenges emerge e.g. due to climate 
change (e.g. changing rainfall patterns), rising micro-pollutants in waterbodies, 
increasing surface sealing, competition among water users, and rapidly aging 
infrastructures (Fraunhofer ISI, 2012; Hillenbrand et al., 2013; Larsen et al., 2016; 
OECD, 2015). Coupled with rising societal demands of high water quality and 
services, these factors lead to an increase of the economic, social and 
environmental costs of water security (OECD, 2015). Simultaneously, affordable 
water management systems for municipalities and citizens are of high relevance 
(Lieberherr and Truffer, 2015). Despite the availability of innovative technologies 
and knowledge in the water sector (e.g. Larsen et al., 2016), practical 
implementation remains demanding and slow (Rijke et al., 2013). Key challenges 
for sustainability transitions of UWM are strong path dependencies and well-
established institutional and organizational governance modes (Kiparsky et al., 
2013; Thomas and Ford, 2005). For the transition of UWM, technological 
innovation play a key role, but the institutional context and the social system that 
control change processes have to be considered equally important (Kiparsky et al., 
2013). In the upcoming decades, cities, municipalities, or other investors need to 
invest massively in the renewal, modernization and adaptation of the 
infrastructure system (Fraunhofer ISI, 2012). Due to these renovation and 
reinvestment requirements of the water sewage infrastructure, windows of 
opportunities are opening to change the status-quo.  
With our contribution, we aim to provide insights into the decision-making and 
implementation process of innovation projects in UWM and related infrastructure 
systems. Following Axelson et al. (2017) and Foxon et al. (2015), we suggest a 
business model (BM) perspective for this purpose. "Indeed, the business model 
perspective holds the potential to facilitate public actors in collective actions for 
innovating new solutions, their open economy, and value creation." (Axelson et 
al., 2017: 376). A business model characterizes the way a business or another 
entity organizes its activities in order to achieve its goals (Teece, 2010; Zott et al., 
2011). In the case of UWM, it is key to consider economic, social, and ecological 
objectives equally (Foxon et al., 2015). The business model framework is helpful 
to mediate participatory decision making processes by a set of distributed actors 
(Hacklin and Wallnöfer, 2012). 
 
 

 
 
Methods 
UWM systems are complex socio-technical systems that combine a large number 
of relevant actors and stakeholders. In Germany, UWM is part of the public 
services and in parts a sovereign task of the municipalities. In order to test the 
practical relevance and the benefits of the BM concept to manage innovations on 
municipal level, we conduct an empirical analysis in a municipality in North Rhine-
Westphalia. In the case study, a technological innovation is supposed to be 
implemented to utilize the hitherto unused decentralized waste heat of waste 
heat producers via existing wastewater infrastructure. The case study is not 
intended to evaluate individual technical components, but to show how 
innovations in UWM can be implemented from a governance and multi-
stakeholder perspective. For this purpose, the different actors and stakeholders 
who are relevant in the innovation process for UWM are identified. We (1) aim to 
design a tool for setting up the innovation project based on the Business Model 
Canvas (BMC) originally introduced by Osterwalder and Pigneur (2010), (2) collect 
(qualitative) data in a document analysis and a series of semi-structured expert 
interviews. We thereby aim to (1) enable and understand the decision-making 
process on municipal level, (2) provide an overview of the relevant actors and 
stakeholders for innovation processes on municipal level, and (3) identify new 
ways of cooperation, risk sharing, and value capturing to allow the 
implementation of innovative and more sustainable technologies.  
Expected Results 
We consider the BM perspective appropriate in three aspects: First, to align the 
strategies and activities of the actively involved key partners; secondly, to 
illustrate associated values, costs and risks of innovation projects; and thirdly, to 
integrate the stakeholder's perspective from the beginning to create legitimacy 
(see e.g. Binz et al., 2016). The original BMC allows for a clear presentation of BMs 
by outlining nine "building blocks".  Adaption of the original framework are 
expected to be necessary as key characteristics of infrastructure systems diverge 
from other goods and services that are commonly addressed by the BMC (Foxon 
et al., 2015). "Infrastructure systems are complex systems in view of their 
combined social, economic and physical complexity" (Herder et al., 2008). The 
requirements of a BMC in the context of UWM are inherently more complex than 
depicted in the original approach. Foxon et al. (2015) provide an adapted BMC 
concept that captures opportunities for infrastructure investments beyond 
techno-economic benefits and financial profitability. Instead of maximizing the 

 
 
return for investors, Foxon et al. (2015) aim to incorporate positive social and 
environmental externalities in the decision-making process and enable local 
communities to benefit from the resulting advantages. By using the tool, we hope 
to identify entry points for transition processes on municipal level. However, the 
BMC is a static model. For a successful implementation process of innovative 
UWM approaches, the dynamics of the process have to be taken into account. As 
a result of our study, we expect to gain insights on the existing structure of actors 
and stakeholders in the decision-making process for UWM measures on municipal 
level. Furthermore, we expect to identify bottlenecks for the implementation of 
innovations in UWM in practice.   
Conclusion 
Today, there is still an ongoing discussion on the definition and contribution of the 
BM concept to science and practice (Massa et al., 2017; Zott et al., 2011). Keeping 
that debate in mind, we argue that the BM perspective can contribute to a 
sustainable development of UWM by fostering a sustainability transition in various 
innovation projects on municipal level. For the purpose of (re-) structuring 
decision-making processes in UWM, we believe the BM perspective can help to 
translate strategies on higher (state) level to concrete action on municipal level. 
Besides, it can be used as a framework to mediate distributed actors and the 
relevant activities for the innovation project. 
References 
Axelson M, Netz J and Sandström C (2017) Collective action problems in public 
sector innovation: A business model perspective. Creativity and Innovation 
Management 26(4): 370–378. 
Binz C, Harris-Lovett S, Kiparsky M, et al. (2016) The thorny road to technology 
legitimation — Institutional work for potable water reuse in California. 
Technological forecasting and social change 103: 249–263. 
Foxon TJ, Bale CSE, Busch J, et al. (2015) Low carbon infrastructure investment: 
Extending business models for sustainability. Infrastructure Complexity 2(1): 
1–13. 
Fraunhofer ISI (ed) (2012) Leitfaden für die Gestaltung eines strategischen 
Planungsprozesses zur nachhaltigen Weiterentwicklung der kommunalen 
Wasserinfrastruktur. Im Rahmen des Forschungsprojektes NAUWA - 
Nachhaltige Weiterentwicklung urbaner Wasserinfrastrukturen unter sich 
stark ändernden Randbedingungen entwickelter Leitfaden. Karlsruhe. 

 
 
Haan FJ de, Rogers BC, Frantzeskaki N, et al. (2015) Transitions through a lens of 
urban water. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions 15: 1–10. 
Hacklin F and Wallnöfer M (2012) The business model in the practice of strategic 
decision making: Insights from a case study. Management Decision 50(2): 
166–188. 
Herder PM, Bouwmans I, Dijkema GPJ, et al. (2008) Designing infrastructures using 
a complex systems perspective. Journal of design research 7(1): 17–34. 
Hillenbrand T, Hiessl H, Klug S, et al. (2013) Herausforderungen einer nachhaltigen 
Wasserwirtschaft. (Challenges of a Sustainable Water Management): 
Innovationsreport. 
Kiparsky M, Sedlak DL, Thompson BH, et al. (2013) The Innovation Deficit in Urban 
Water: The Need for an Integrated Perspective on Institutions, 
Organizations, and Technology. Environmental engineering science 30(8): 
395–408. 
Larsen TA, Hoffmann S, Lüthi C, et al. (2016) Emerging solutions to the water 
challenges of an urbanizing world. Science 352(6288): 928–933. 
Lieberherr E and Truffer B (2015) The impact of privatization on sustainability 
transitions: A comparative analysis of dynamic capabilities in three water 
utilities. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions 15: 101–122. 
Massa L, Tucci CL and Afuah A (2017) A Critical Assessment of Business Model 
Research. Academy of Management Annals 11(1): 73–104. 
OECD (2015) Water and Cities. Paris: OECD Publishing. 
Osterwalder A and Pigneur Y (2010) Business model generation: A handbook for 
visionaries, game changers, and challengers. New York: John Wiley & Sons. 
Pahl-Wostl C, Arthington A, Bogardi J, et al. (2013) Environmental flows and water 
governance: Managing sustainable water uses. Current Opinion in 
Environmental Sustainability 5(3-4): 341–351. 
Rijke J, Farrelly M, Brown R, et al. (2013) Configuring transformative governance 
to enhance resilient urban water systems. Environmental Science & Policy 
25: 62–72. 
Teece DJ (2010) Business Models, Business Strategy and Innovation. Long range 
planning 43(2-3): 172–194. 
Thomas DA and Ford RR (2005) The crisis of innovation in water and wastewater. 
Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing. 
Truffer B, Störmer E, Maurer M, et al. (2010) Local strategic planning processes 
and sustainability transitions in infrastructure sectors. Environmental Policy 
and Governance 20(4): 258–269. 
Zott C, Amit R and Massa L (2011) The Business Model: Recent Developments and 
Future Research. Journal of Management 37(4): 1019–1042. 

 
 
The confluence of transformative 
business models for a post growth 
economy and organizational 
evolutionary theory? 
 
Edward Langham 
The Institute for Sustainable Futures, University of Technology 
Sydney; The Schumacher Institute, United Kingdom 
 
Abstract 
Debate surrounding post growth or degrowth economic transitions has focussed 
heavily on macroeconomic conditions, and has only recently begun to unpack 
what this means for organising and designing business models at the level of the 
firm. This recent work has produced a coherent but diverse understanding of 
desirable business outcomes. This paper offers a new conceptual lens on how to 
conceive of ‘truly transformational’ post growth business models, and distills a set 
of inputs giving rise to these desirable business outcomes, to provide greater 
clarity on how such outcomes are related, and can be delivered. Firstly, it suggests 
that to create a more transformative subset of Sustainable Business Models 
compatible with a ‘post growth’, ‘degrowth’ or ‘steady state’ economy we must 
blend sustainability and circular economy concepts. Adopting Maclurcan’s (2018) 
terminological framing, ‘full circle’ business models require circularity across three 
dimensions: resources, value, and money. Secondly, in seeking insight on how to 
deliver ‘truly transformative’ full circle models which concurrently achieve 
transformation and scale, it extends current work by thematically distilling four 
key organisational structure/process inputs: alternative ownership structures, 
collaborative innovation, business model alignment and decentralisation. Finally, 
in casting a wide disciplinary net to incorporate the element of scale, it uncovers 
intersection of the identified inputs within Frederic Laloux’s (2014) observations 
and theory of the evolution a new ‘teal’ organisational form, in his study of ‘more 
soulful’ workplaces. If identified post growth/teal commonalities prove to be 
material, this could broaden the organisation types of interest to post growth 

 
 
business model scholarship, and more clearly bridge the communities of practice 
seeking sustainability transformation and better workplaces. 
Keywords 
business model, post growth, degrowth, collaborative innovation, ownership, 
decentralisation, open innovation 

 
 
The role of firm-level business model 
innovation in inducing a change in a 
dominant industry logic 
 
Vernay, Anne-Lorène1,*,+, Cartel, Mélanie2, Pinkse, Jonatan3 
 
1Grenoble Ecole de Management, Univ. Grenoble Alpes ComUE; 
2UNSW Business School, School of Management; 3Manchester 
Institute of Innovation Research, Alliance Manchester Business 
School, University of Manchester, United Kingdom 
 
*anne-lorene.vernay@grenoble-em.com 
 
Abstract  
The dominant logic of an industry refers to highly stable cognitive templates 
defining how value is being created, delivered and captured in this industry. This 
paper investigates how the dominant logic of an industry may change despite 
pressures towards maintenance. In particular, we investigate the role of business 
model innovation at the firm-level in changing the dominant logic of an industry. 
Our paper is a qualitative case study of the change in the dominant logic of the 
electricity industry in the Netherlands from 2000 to 2016. We find that the ability 
of business models to induce change in the dominant logic of an industry pertains 
to three mechanisms: creating an alternative logic, undermining the dominant 
logic, complementing the creation of an alternative logic. We further integrate 
these three mechanisms into a dynamic model of how business models induce 
change in the dominant logic of an industry. Our main contribution is to the 
business model literature. We contend that when an industry is mature, the 
creating mechanism is not sufficient to induce change in the dominant industry 
logic and that this mechanism has to be supplemented by undermining and 
complementing mechanisms. 
 

 
 
Keywords 
Business Model Innovation, Dominant Industry Logic, Change, Energy 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Within many established industries, firms tend to follow a similar ‘recipe’ 
regarding the way in which they do business and compete with one another 
(Charles Baden-Fuller & Morgan, 2010; Sabatier, Mangematin, & Rousselle, 2010), 
a phenomenon that has been referred to as the industry’s dominant logic (Bettis 
& Prahalad, 1995; Prahalad & Bettis, 1986). But how does the dominant logic of 
an industry change? More formally, the dominant logic of an industry refers to the 
shared understanding and collective frameworks that organizational actors use to 
assess their competitive environment and build their business strategy. It captures 
a learned behavior of how to do business in a specific industry which is based on 
organizational actors’ past experience. Early research focuses on how the 
dominant logic of general management shapes firms’ strategic decisions and 
constrains their business relationships (Bettis & Prahalad, 1995; Prahalad & Bettis, 
1986). More recently, the dominant logic has been discussed as showing itself in 
the business models most commonly used in a given industry, as it provides firms 
with a highly stable rationale for how to best create, deliver and capture value 
(Bohnsack, Pinkse, & Kolk, 2014; Massa, Tucci, & Afuah, 2017; Sabatier, Craig-
Kennard, & Mangematin, 2012). This insight suggests that firms-in-an-industry 
tend to follow a general template (or ‘industry recipe’) for how to do business and 
organize and integrate activities (Charles Baden-Fuller & Morgan, 2010; Sabatier 
et al., 2010).  
However, because the dominant logic provides firms with efficient templates to 
make strategic decisions, it is hardly challenged (Chesbrough, 2010; Chesbrough 
& Rosenbloom, 2002). As firms develop business models that instantiate the 
templates’ underlying assumptions, they constantly enact these templates and 
reinforce their validity with the consequence that the business models form a 
source of inertia in the industry (Bidmon & Knab, 2018; Chesbrough & 
Rosenbloom, 2002; Massa et al., 2017). While the dominant industry logic 
certainly is an enduring, highly structuring element of an industry, it is also, as any 
social structure, subject to evolution and change. For instance, the low-cost logic 
is now prevailing in the air travel industry, but when Southwest airlines first 
introduced its disruptive business model in the 1980s another logic predominated 
instead (Kim & Mauborgne, 2004). Very little is known, though, about how the 

 
 
dominant logic of an industry changes. A change in an industry’s dominant logic 
constitutes an important phenomenon to study in as much as it leads to radical 
change in how firms design and implement their strategies.  
The business model literature has investigated how firms break free from the 
dominant industry logic and design innovative business models (Charles Baden-
Fuller & Mangematin, 2013; Chesbrough, 2010; Sabatier et al., 2012). Such 
deviations from the status quo arise either when a new technology is introduced 
to an industry and its potential cannot be unlocked through standard business 
models (Chesbrough, 2010), or when an actor sees an opportunity to introduce a 
new value proposition in this industry (Kim & Mauborgne, 2004). The general 
argument is that when a firm successfully modifies a dimension of the dominant 
industry logic in its business model (i.e., value proposition, value chain and value 
capture), the alternative business model may spread and lead to more permanent 
changes in the dominant logic. However, the specific mechanisms whereby firm-
level changes in business models induce industry-level changes in the dominant 
logic are not well understood. In this paper, we therefore aim to investigate the 
performative role of firm-level business models in changing the dominant industry 
logic (Doganova & Eyquem-Renault, 2009; Perkmann & Spicer, 2014); that is, how 
do business model innovations develop, diffuse and scale such that they 
contribute to a change in an industry’s dominant logic. 
To investigate the mechanisms whereby business model innovations perform 
roles that induce permanent changes in the dominant industry logic, we 
conducted a case study of the electricity industry in the Netherlands. From 2000 
to 2016, the electricity industry has been undergoing profound changes in the way 
in which electricity is produced, transported and consumed. While this change was 
initiated by the European directive liberalizing the electricity sector, more 
profound changes in the industry logic were triggered by the massive business 
model innovation that followed the enactment of the directive. Based on our case 
study, we find that the performative ability of business model innovation to induce 
changes in the dominant industry logic pertain to three mechanisms: undermining 
the dominant logic, creating an alternative logic, and complementing the 
alternative logic. “Undermining” refers to how business model innovations 
challenge the dominant industry logic by instantiating divergent hypotheses about 
how to create, deliver and capture value in the industry. “Creating” refers to the 
crafting of business models that carry novel hypotheses regarding what value is, 
as well as how value is being created, delivered and captured in the industry and 
thus try to establish an alternative industry logic. “Complementing” refers to how 

 
 
complementary business models may be designed as an infrastructure that is 
conducive to the spread of novel business models that form the foundation of the 
alternative industry logic. The paper integrates the three mechanisms and their 
two reinforcing effects into a dynamic model of how firm-level business models 
may induce change in the dominant logic of an industry. 
2. LITERATURE REVIEW 
2.1 Dominant industry logic, firm-level business models and their 
interaction  
There are many different definitions and views of what business models are and 
what their function is (Charles Baden-Fuller & Morgan, 2010; Massa et al., 2017). 
By investigating how business model innovation induces a change in a dominant 
industry logic, we aim to reconcile two different views of the role of business 
models: business models as a cognitive schema and business models as attributes 
of real firms (Massa et al., 2017). The first view considers business models as 
meso-level cognitive structures that create a shared schema reflected in the 
dominant logic of an industry, while the second view refers to micro-level 
attributes of real firms which relate to value creation, value chain and value 
capture, respectively. In this paper, we are interested in the interaction between 
these two levels and how innovation in the micro-level attributes of business 
models lead to a change in the meso-level cognitive structure of the dominant 
industry logic.  
While the dominant logic was originally theorized to explain a shared cognitive 
schema of decision-makers within a diversified firm (Prahalad & Bettis, 1986), it 
has later been applied to understand the shared mindset of decision-makers on 
higher levels of analysis including the industry (Sabatier et al., 2012) and the 
sociotechnical regime (Bidmon & Knab, 2018). Here, we focus on the industry 
level, where the dominant logic refers to a shared cognitive schema that firms rely 
on to create and capture value within a given industry (Massa et al., 2017; 
Prahalad & Bettis, 1986; Sabatier et al., 2012). Firms-in-an-industry rely on the 
same dominant logic when it comes to defining what customers want, how to 
deliver what they want to customers and how to monetize their activity, thus 
creating a collective understanding of what the most efficient business model in 
the given industry looks like (Sabatier et al., 2012). The more mature the industry, 
the more firms abide by this dominant logic and design their business in a way that 
they fit in (Kim & Mauborgne, 2004). The dominant industry logic shapes 

 
 
organizational actors’ interpretations of what a typical business model looks like 
and the norms of what can be considered a viable business model (Massa et al., 
2017). 
At the firm level, the notion of business model refers to attributes of real firms 
(Massa et al., 2017)  and managers’ strategic choices about how to create, deliver 
and capture value from a product or service (Casadesus-Masanell & Ricart, 2011; 
Teece, 2010; Zott & Amit, 2010). A firm’s business model is a strategic device 
developed to commercialize products or services (Charles Baden-Fuller & 
Haefliger, 2013; Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002; Doganova & Eyquem-Renault, 
2009; Teece, 2010; Zott, Amit, & Massa, 2011). It connects seemingly separate 
units of a firm so that the firm is able to create, deliver and capture value (Demil 
& Lecocq, 2010). Locally, firms develop business models that mirror the industry’s 
logic about how firms create and capture value within a value context. Here, we 
focus on three fundamental dimensions to a business model that form attributes 
of real firms: value creation, value chain and value capture (Charles Baden-Fuller 
& Mangematin, 2013). These attributes can be observed in a firm’s sets of 
activities, resources and capabilities and strategic choices (Casadesus-Masanell & 
Ricart, 2011; Massa et al., 2017)(Zott & Amit, 2010).  
Research looking into the interaction between the dominant industry logic and 
firm-level business models has highlighted the inertial force emanating from the 
dominant logic (Bidmon & Knab, 2018; Bohnsack et al., 2014; Chesbrough & 
Rosenbloom, 2002; Massa et al., 2017; Tripsas & Gavetti, 2000). An industry’s 
dominant logic tends to restrain diversity and inhibit product and service 
innovation (Prahalad & Bettis, 1986). Because the dominant logic provides 
managers with generic templates that ‘work well’, managers rely on these 
templates to design and implement their business models (Bidmon & Knab, 2018). 
Most business models within an industry are local instantiations of the dominant 
logic and therefore quite similar (Sabatier et al., 2012). As organizational decision-
makers enact the dominant logic through their everyday decisions, they, in turn, 
enact the perceived validity of the dominant logic and reinforce its dominant 
position. In mature industries, the dominant logic may become so pervasive that 
it prevents new products and services from arising (Kim & Mauborgne, 2004). 
Indeed, when decision-makers evaluate market potential for novel products and 
services they do so through the prism of the dominant logic, which may be ill-
suited to evaluate the potential of such radically new products and services. 

 
 
2.2 Business model innovation and its performative impact on 
the dominant logic   
To theorize the interaction between firm-level business models and the industry-
level logic, we concentrate on the performative role of firm-level business model 
innovation in changing the dominant logic (Doganova & Eyquem-Renault, 2009; 
Perkmann & Spicer, 2014). As Doganova and Eyquem-Renault (2009, p. 1569) 
argue, a business model ‘is performative in the sense that it shapes not only the 
specific new venture that it represents, but also, through the process of 
replication, business models and new ventures to come.’ So, how do 
organizational actors, by innovating their own business model, manage to have an 
impact beyond their organizational boundaries on the way value is created, 
delivered and captured within the industry. We focus in particular on business 
models’ performative role in unlocking the latent value of a technology (Perkmann 
& Spicer, 2014). When radically new products and services arise, business models 
can help unlock their potential and help them diffuse by reconfiguring one of its 
three constitutive dimensions or the linkages between them: value proposition, 
value chain or value capture (Bohnsack et al., 2014; Chesbrough, 2010; 
Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002).  
First, business models can help unlock the market potential of product and service 
innovations by reconfiguring the value proposition compared to the dominant 
logic’s assumptions. Product and service innovations face important diffusion 
barriers, as they do not fit the pre-existing assumptions consumers have about 
what value an industry is going to provide them with. Such barriers are 
exacerbated in the case of sustainable products and services that seem more 
desirable from a societal rather than a customer point of view (Gauthier & 
Gilomen, 2016). Innovating the business model can overcome some of these 
barriers and accelerate the diffusion of new products and services by increasing 
their market attractiveness (Bohnsack et al., 2014; Drury et al., 2012; Vernay & 
Gauthier, 2019). Bohnsack and Pinkse (2017) show that reconfiguring the value 
proposition of electric vehicles compared to conventional vehicles has been an 
important factor for this technological innovation to break into mainstream 
markets. For example, car firms changed the value proposition by highlighting 
mobility provision instead of car ownership. Hence, business model innovation can 
induce a change in the notion of value by reinventing it through narratives 
(Doganova & Eyquem-Renault, 2009; Perkmann & Spicer, 2014) that demonstrate 
novel customer benefits that go beyond those currently exploited in the market 
(Kim & Mauborgne, 2004; Massa et al., 2017; Normann & Ramirez, 1993; Priem, 
2007). 

 
 
Second, business models help new products and services diffuse by reshuffling the 
value chain compared to the dominant logic’s template regarding the 
transactional relations between actors in the industry. Low-cost business models, 
for instance, have re-organized the entire value chain of air transportation (Kim & 
Mauborgne, 2004), challenging deeply seated assumptions about how to best 
deliver value to end-users. Similarly, the business models of the sharing economy 
disrupt fundamental assumptions about who is involved in fulfilling end-user 
needs. By promoting peer-to-peer exchanges, these business models are 
excluding incumbents from traditional value chains (Zervas, Proserpio, & Byers, 
2017). Business model innovation can profoundly challenge the distribution of 
prestige, roles and economic rent among incumbents and new entrants in socio-
technical systems (Vernay & Gauthier, 2019).  
Third, business models unlock the economic value of product and service 
innovations by reconfiguring the profit model compared to the dominant logic’s 
assumptions and thus change the value capture (Bolton & Hannon, 2016; 
Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002). When major firms in the office equipment 
industry were asked to evaluate the Xerox copier model 914, for example, they 
did so based on this industry’s dominant logic (Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002). 
At the time, the dominant logic stated the razor-blade business model as the only 
legitimate way of doing business and making money in this industry. It is only by 
operating a business model switch from the razor-blade profit model to the leasing 
profit model that Xerox was able to commercialize its technology and demonstrate 
its potential (Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002). The case of Polaroid, when facing 
the disruption of digital photography, shows instead how a failure to move away 
from the razor-and-blade model and adapt its value capture led to the firm’s 
failure (Tripsas & Gavetti, 2000).  
Innovative business models challenge a dominant logic’s fundamental 
assumptions what value is as well as how it is created and captured within an 
industry (Sabatier et al., 2012). When innovative business models are successful 
in commercializing new products and services, they may end up modifying the 
industry’s dominant logic. While previous research has focused on how innovative 
business models reshuffle the dominant logic’s assumptions to help technologies 
diffuse, little is known about how these variations affect and eventually change 
the dominant logic. In the remainder of the paper, we identify and explain the 
mechanisms whereby firm-level business model innovations induce change in the 
dominant logic at the industry-level. 

 
 
3. DATA AND METHODS  
3.1 Empirical Setting 
The empirical context for this study is the evolution of the dominant logic of Dutch 
electricity industry from 2000 to 2016. Since the industry’s liberalization, following 
the adoption of the European Commission’s 96/92/CE directive, the Dutch 
electricity market has been dominated by three large utilities. In 2001, they had 
87% market share (ECN, 2001). The dominant logic, shared with other European 
utilities, has long been to develop vertically integrated firms that produce, 
distribute and supply electricity to customers. These firms operate large-scale, 
fossil-fuel-based power plants. It is widely accepted that customers—which are 
considered captive—think of electricity as a commodity, a low-interest product, 
and only interact with suppliers on a yearly basis when they receive their 
electricity bills. The revenue model is based on volumetric tariffs that depend on 
how much electricity customers use. As Richter (2013) argued, European utilities 
have a business model that is utility-centered. Since the sector’s liberalization, 
pushed by the Kyoto Protocol, and increasing awareness that the sector needs to 
decarbonize, it has gone through important changes. In 2000, renewable energy 
sources represented 2.5% of Dutch electricity consumption (Novem, 2002) and 
about 70% of electricity was produced centrally or imported from neighboring 
countries. In 2001, more than half a million Dutch customers had a green 
electricity contract (Novem, 2002) . By 2017, 69% of Dutch consumers had a green 
electricity contract (ACM, 2017). In 2018, renewable energy sources represented 
about 15% of Dutch electricity consumption (CBS, 2018) and there are now more 
than 50 energy suppliers present in the country (ACM, 2016). The three largest 
suppliers still own a large part of the market – 77% in 2016 (ACM, 2016) – but this 
percentage has been decreasing steadily since 2012. This trend may be explained 
by the fact that more and more people switch energy supplier. In 2018, 16% of 
Dutch consumers switched energy provider, which is far above the European 
average of about 6% (ACM, 2018). Even though we cannot claim that a new 
dominant logic has emerged in the industry, we observed that incumbents are 
very conscious that the prevailing logic is contested and will have to evolve. This 
is clearly illustrated by the following quote from the head of smart energy lab at 
one of the big utilities: “It’s clear that the old business model is dying. It’s not so 
clear that a new business model is resurfacing”. Besides, the sector is very dynamic 
with ample business model innovation going on that could eventually nurture the 
emergence of a new dominant logic. This makes the Dutch electricity industry a 

 
 
very suitable empirical setting to study the influence of firm-level business model 
innovation on a change in the dominant industry logic. 
3.2  Data collection 
Our unit of analysis is firm-level business model innovation. We used four types of 
data (see Table 1) to understand the political context in which the change in 
dominant logic is taking place, and to identify the mechanisms through which firm-
level business model innovation contributes to a change in the dominant industry 
logic: 1) archival documents including institutional reports and academic papers 
that discuss energy policy in the Netherlands and the evolution of the Dutch 
energy sector; 2) 30 semi-structured interviews; 3) corporate archives including 
webpages presenting the firms’ offers and press releases discussing relevant 
changes in business strategy regarding decentralization, and 4) other archives 
from the media including press and blog articles discussing business model 
innovations.  
Interviews were conducted in two rounds. The first round of interviews focused 
on business model innovations that were based on new definitions of value 
creation, delivery and/or capture. This round revealed the importance of 
organizations that provide complementary assets to organizations that develop 
business models based on an alternative logic. The second round therefore 
focused both on business model innovations and their complementors. We 
interviewed representatives of firms and organizations identified as playing a role 
in the decentralization and decarbonization of the Dutch electricity industry as 
well as incumbents. The business representatives included founders, managing 
directors, heads of strategy departments, innovation managers, account 
managers, and project leaders. When interviewing representatives from 
organizations involved in business model innovation, we specifically asked them 
to describe their business model and explain why they chose to define value 
creation, delivery and/or capture differently from the dominant logic’s definitions 
and why these differences are important to them. We also asked them to reflect 
on the role of their organization in changing the dominant logic of the industry and 
to identify and reflect on the role of other potentially important organizations in 
the ongoing change. When these organizations had been active in the industry for 
many years, we asked them to explain what their initial intent was, describe how 
their business model had changed over time, and explain why it had changed. 
When interviewing incumbents, questions aimed at understanding how they 
reflected on ongoing changes in the industry, and whether and, if so, how that was 

 
 
influencing the dominant industry logic. For some organizations, we conducted 
more than one interview either to get a more complete overview of the ongoing 
business model innovation or to understand reasons behind important strategic 
changes. Interviews and company archives provided us with narratives about firm-
level business model innovation, what has been driving these innovations and 
what they mean to those introducing them.  
We also interviewed experts to gain additional knowledge about industry 
specificities and to validate that all the important types of organizations had been 
interviewed. Table 1 presents these sources in more detail and explains how they 
contributed to our analysis. Table A1 in the appendix shows which organizations 
were interviewed, when these organizations were established, the role of the 
person interviewed and the date of the interview.  
Insert Table 1 About here 
3.3  Data analysis  
To organize and analyze the data that we had collected from archival sources and 
interviewing business representatives and experts, we followed a three-stage 
process. 
Stage 1. Drawing on longitudinal methodologies for qualitative data analysis 
(Langley, 1999), we sequenced our data into a timeline of three periods that are 
analytically comparable. This preliminary stage provided us with a descriptive 
account of seven pages that capture the main stages in changing the dominant 
industry logic. The first period (2000-2007) sees small producers, mainly farmers, 
struggling to find their place in the newly liberalized Dutch electricity system. The 
second period (2007-2013) sees new entrants starting to destabilize the sector. 
They propose low-cost electricity offers or try to attribute more decision power to 
end-users and place them at the heart of the energy socio-technical system. 
During the third period (2013-2016), the transition starts to accelerate with a 
number of actors with innovative business models entering and flourishing in the 
system. This period also sees incumbents experimenting with distributed energy 
generation and with new forms of social practices around electricity.  
Stage 2. We coded our data, both the interviews and the corporate archival data, 
to identify the mechanisms through which business model innovation changes the 
dominant logic of the electricity industry in the Netherlands. To identify 

 
 
mechanisms, we first conducted an open coding of our data (Corbin & Strauss, 
2014), focusing on the definitions business model innovations rely on in terms of 
value creation, value delivery and value capture and on the accompanying 
narratives arguing for these definitions. The open coding yielded 88 first-order 
codes which we reduced to 27 codes by tracking similarities among them (Gioia, 
Corley, & Hamilton, 2013). We kept these codes as close as possible to 
practitioners’ terms. These first-order codes comprise labels such as “coal 
electricity is bad electricity”, “color the electron”, “charge a fee to access the 
platform” and “help create a brand around alternative customer values”. Once we 
agreed that these first-order codes were representative of all the narratives used 
to legitimize business model innovation and describe how it induces change to the 
dominant industry logic, all the interviews and archival data were recoded to make 
sure all the coding was consistent throughout the dataset. In parallel, we engaged 
in an iterative movement between data and literature (Locke, 2001) to identify 
mechanisms through which business model innovations can induce change in the 
dominant industry logic.  
We identified three mechanisms through which firm-level business model 
innovation can induce change in the dominant industry logic: undermining the 
dominant industry logic by delegitimizing prevailing definitions of how to create, 
deliver and capture value and the social structures on which they depend; creating 
an alternative logic of value creation, delivery and/or capture; and complementing 
business models that form the foundation of the alternative logic and provide the 
infrastructure that is conducive to their diffusion (see Table 2). First-order codes 
were grouped into these three mechanisms. Table A2 in the appendix presents 
selected examples of citations used to develop the first-order codes. Some 
business model innovations were found to perform a role in relation to various 
mechanisms that we identified. For instance, some business model innovations 
create alternative logics of value creation while, at the same time, undermining 
the logic of existing value chains. Other business model innovations create 
alternative revenue models while complementing other actors in helping them 
develop new value propositions.  
Insert Table 2 About here 
Stage 3. We paralleled our timeline (stage 1) with the coding structure (stage 2) to 
get a first sense of when each mechanism was generating an outcome in terms of 
leading to a change in the dominant industry logic. We identified two reinforcing 
interaction effects that augmented the scope and impact of the three 

 
 
mechanisms: a self-reinforcing effect and a mutually-reinforcing effect. We then 
examined the plausibility of these interaction effects by going back to the data. 
Particularly, we analyzed how our interviewees made sense of the interactions 
among the three mechanisms. After triangulating our findings with the reports of 
our interviewees, we derived a dynamic model of thee way in which the three 
mechanisms interact in inducing change in the dominant logic of an industry (see 
Figure 2). 
4. Findings 
From the literature, we know that business model innovation at the firm level has 
the potential to have a performative role in inducing change in the dominant logic 
of an industry. We found three mechanisms through which business models can 
deliver on that potential (see Figure 1). Business models may (1) undermine the 
dominant industry logic, (2) create an alternative industry logic, or (3) complement 
the creation of an alternative industry logic. Undermining refers to business model 
innovations that erode the legitimacy of the dominant logic and the social 
structures that supports it. Creating refers to business model innovations that 
propose an alternative logic to create customer value, organize value chains 
and/or develop revenue models. Complementing refers to business model 
innovations that provide complementary assets that other organizations need to 
develop business model innovations that undermine the dominant industry logic 
or create an alternative logic. While undermining and creating both enable a direct 
change in the dominant industry logic, complementing only leads to change in the 
dominant industry logic in an indirect way. That is, it acts as a catalyzer that further 
reinforces the actions of undermining and creating. Altogether, these three 
mechanisms provide an empirically grounded and theoretically relevant account 
of how business model innovations induced change in the dominant logic of the 
Dutch electricity industry. In the next sections, we first explain how each 
mechanism contributes to changing the dominant logic individually to then move 
to elaborating on how they reinforce one another. 
Insert Figure 1 About here 
4.1  Undermining mechanism  
We observed that business model innovations can contribute to the 
transformation of the dominant industry logic by undermining the prevailing logic. 

 
 
They contribute by undermining the three components of the dominant industry 
logic: what is the best way to create value for customers, how value chains are 
organized to deliver that value, and which revenue model prevails to capture part 
of the value.  
First, business models can contribute to undermining the prevailing definitions 
about what customers want and thus how to create value for them and eroding 
their legitimacy. In 2015, the Dutch authority for consumers and markets 
estimated that 64% of Dutch households had a green electricity contract. 
However, only a small proportion of this renewable energy is produced 
domestically. Most of it comes from cheap hydropower imported by the big 
utilities from Scandinavia and does not contribute to greening the Dutch power 
system. Some non-governmental organizations have introduced this issue in their 
value proposition as they rank electricity providers according to the proportion of 
Dutch green electricity they produce, thereby raising awareness among 
consumers. They invented the term “sjoemelstroom”, which we translate as 
“hustle power”. This change in traditional value propositions of ranking firms led 
consumers to ask critical questions about green energy: “Is it green, is it really 
green. Is it green from Holland or is it only with certificates?”. Besides undermining 
current norms and values regarding the quality of the electricity that is consumed, 
some firms developed value propositions that question the very existence of 
utilities. An alternative energy supplier, for instance, proposes that customers 
become co-owners of the means to produce electricity. In a video advertisement, 
they encourage people to imagine a world free from utilities, where everyone can 
be their own energy supplier. By pushing consumers to think that not all electrons 
are equal and that the power sector does not have to be controlled by large 
utilities, these business model innovations contribute to changing prevailing 
conceptions about what customers expect from their energy supplier.  
Second, business model innovations can contribute to undermining the social 
structures in the prevailing value chains and especially by eroding the power of 
incumbent actors. The liberalization of the power sector in the Netherlands 
pushed many small energy suppliers to merge, resulting in the creation of four big 
actors: Nuon, Essent, Eneco and Delta (Van Damme, 2005). Even though the retail 
market opened in the early 2000s, very few customers switched supplier. Between 
2013 and 2015, on average, less than 5% of EU households switched supplier 
(ACER, 2016). In the Netherlands, it is estimated that about 50% of end users never 
switched supplier, a group that utilities call “the sleepers”. Part of the reason why 
few people switch energy supplier is their limited understanding of what they 

 
 
could gain by switching electricity supplier (He & Reiner, 2015). Our data show 
that some business models try to undermine the power of these incumbents by 
increasing the volatility of the retail market. A new energy provider for instance, 
started positioning itself as a price fighter in 2007. They wanted to attract 
customers by showing them they could have a better deal if they moved away 
from their historical energy provider. They developed aggressive marketing 
campaigns, criticizing the big utilities for charging too much for their energy and 
encouraging people to switch to their offer instead. Many interviewees mentioned 
this firm’s entry as important in “shaking up the market” because it showed 
customers that they could gain from switching power supplier and by stealing 
customers from big incumbent utilities.  
Similarly, firms with comparison websites as their main value proposition increase 
the volatility of the retail market by decreasing switching costs (Klemperer, 1987). 
A key aspect of comparison sites’ value proposition is to make switching “hassle-
free” by taking care of all the administration that comes with it. Transposing the 
model of flight search engines to the energy sector, these comparison sites make 
the market more transparent by ranking offers according to how well they score 
on predefined criteria (e.g. price, duration of the contract, type of electricity 
offered, and cashback reward). As one interviewee explained, “with suppliers we 
have a love and hate relationship.” Indeed, as these market places become 
important sales channels, utilities are also forced to make attractive offers to 
appear in the top five offers and increase their chance to attract customers. By 
increasing the volatility of the retail market, though, these business models also 
increase the bargaining power of customers, thus undermining the power of 
incumbents. 
Third, business model innovations can contribute to undermining the prevailing 
value capture model by either increasing the costs structure of incumbent actors 
or by decreasing their revenues. Before the market liberalization, small producers 
had to sell their electricity to the suppliers operating in the area where they were 
generating electricity. Once the sector was liberalized, they could negotiate the 
price with any supplier they would like to sell their electricity to. However, small 
independent producers had little room for manoeuvre and hardly any say in the 
price they could get from large incumbent utilities. Incumbents managed very big 
power plants and did not give much value to small generation capacities. The 
oldest green energy supplier was the first to say, “we’ll pay you more for your 
electricity”, and eventually forced other suppliers to do the same. Moreover, 
incumbents’ revenues were also reduced by new entrants. One reason for solar 

 
 
panels to diffuse slowly in the residential market is that the technology is too costly 
and firms distributing solar panels are capturing too much value. We observed that 
some NGOs organize collective buying of solar panels to allow people acquiring 
renewable energy technologies at a cheaper price. Notable examples are Wij 
Willen Zon, an initiative from Urgenda which was quickly imitated by others such 
as Zon zoekt Dak by Natuur en Milieu or 123 Zonne energie by Vereninging Eigen 
Huis (Huijben and Verbong, 2013). By securing better deals for customers, they 
managed to reduce potential revenue for technology providers.  
To summarize, then, business model innovation can undermine the dominant 
industry logic by questioning prevailing conceptions of value creation. Business 
model innovation can delegitimize the way value tends to be created for 
customers by raising customer awareness about the negative externalities that 
accompany this value creation. Business model innovation can also undermine the 
power of incumbent actors in the value chain by fluidifying the retail market, 
thereby increasing competition between actors. Finally, business model 
innovation can undermine prevailing value capture models by increasing the 
bargaining power of both customers and small renewable energy producers.  
4.2 Creating mechanism  
Some business model innovations contribute to transforming the prevailing 
industry logic by creating an alternative logic. That is, organizations involved in 
business model innovation imagine new ways to create value for customers, to 
organize value chains to deliver the value or to tap into new revenue streams to 
be able to capture part of the value. Through business model innovation, these 
organizations try to replace the dominant industry logic with an alternative logic.   
First, we observed that some novel business models create new types of customer 
value. Because it is an invisible commodity which accounts for a small share of a 
household budget, electricity is often described as a low interest product (Fischer, 
2008). The main relation end-customers have to energy is when they receive their 
electricity bill or when they face technical problems. Firms in our sample regularly 
complained that the number one criterion for customers is price. We have 
observed that multiple firms in our sample share the idea that if the energy system 
is to decarbonize, electricity has to become more than the under-socialized 
commodity it is now. End-consumers have to take ownership of the system, 
somehow. These firms have developed business models that push for new forms 

 
 
of customer value and try to empower consumers. For instance, firms developed 
value propositions that do not frame electricity only as an impersonal commodity 
but as a good they can personalize instead. A recently founded energy supplier 
has, for example, developed a marketplace where producers of renewable 
electricity can sell their power directly to end customers. Translating the concept 
of AirBnB to the energy sector, small renewable energy providers have their own 
page where they can present their farm, explain why they have decided to invest 
in renewable energy and advertise the price at which they think it is fair to buy 
their electricity. In this way, this energy supplier allows customers to know 
precisely where their electricity comes from, or at least which producers will 
receive money when they pay their electricity bill. That is, they make it possible to 
color the electron. Similarly, some business models create value for customers that 
are traditionally excluded. Under normal circumstances, only those who possess 
large pieces of land can own wind turbines. Similarly, many households are 
excluded from the solar market because they do not own a house or lack a suitable 
roof. Some business models have been developed to allow these people becoming 
customers. A firm for instance, enables anyone to invest in wind turbines. The 
company splits wind turbines in multiple parts (they call these “winddelen”) and 
crowdfunds them to interested customers. Besides becoming co-owners of a wind 
turbine, customers of this firm can also deduct the electricity produced from their 
electricity bill, in the same way they would, had they installed solar panels on their 
roof. 
Second, we observed that some firms developed business models that result in 
the creation of new social structures in the value chain. Traditionally only large 
electricity producers or suppliers are able to trade on the power market. Small 
producers have to sell their electricity to an electricity provider that acts as an 
intermediary. Some firms developed business models where the core value 
proposition is based on proposing a technical infrastructure that allows new forms 
of transaction to take place. Platforms have been created that allow residential 
prosumers to sell their excess electricity to friends, family, neighbors, etc. As the 
founder stated, they are “for the crowd from the crowd”. These firms also propose 
their platform as a white-label to any organization interested in selling its power 
to customers under their own brand. For example, an ice-skating club like Thialf 
can sell electricity to its fans or a radio station like Qmusic to do the same with its 
audience. Moreover, some business models help connect energy technology 
suppliers and end consumers. A startup initiated in 2014 by one of the DSOs was 
set up with as initial objective to help neighborhoods initiate their energy 
transition by investing in renewable electricity generation or energy efficiency. 

 
 
Part of their revenue model comes from offering a platform where installers and 
technology providers can market their offers and reach potential customers. 
Third, business models can also transform the dominant industry logic by creating 
new revenue models. Based on the assumption that renewable energy 
technologies lack market attractiveness because of their price (Strupeit & Palm, 
2016; Yang, 2010), start-ups started to lease solar power so that customers do not 
face up-front investments. One of the alternative energy suppliers also created a 
new type of revenue model. Traditionally, energy suppliers charge their customer 
a volumetric tariff, meaning that the more they consume, the more they pay. This 
suppliers’s platform proposes something radically different. They charge 
customers for two things: the cost of the electricity which they transfer entirely to 
the small producer chosen by the customers and a monthly subscription that gives 
customers access to the platform. Their margin only comes from this subscription. 
They argue that it is “not in our interest to sell more volume or to sell at a higher 
price and by that we align our interest with that of the customer.”   
In summary, business model innovation contributes to creating an alternative for 
the current dominant industry logic by proposing new ideas to create value 
creation, to organize value chains and to generate revenue. Emerging business 
models try to move away from having customers see electricity as a commodity 
and instead develop a differentiated value proposition that customers can relate 
to. Business model innovation also creates new value by allowing new types of 
transaction to take place, such as peer-to-peer, thus disrupting the traditional 
functioning of the value chain. Finally, business model innovation creates new 
revenue streams by charging customers less for electricity as a product and more 
for electricity-related services. 
 4.3 Complementing mechanism 
Some business model innovations transform the prevailing dominant industry 
logic by providing the complementary assets (Teece, 1986; Teece, Pisano, & 
Shuen, 1997) other firms need to develop business models that try to create an 
alternative logic. Business models can play a complementary role by providing 
assets needed to develop new value propositions, penetrate existing value chains 
or increase the total revenue alternative business models generate. 

 
 
First, we observed that some business models are able to provide the 
complementary assets necessary for other firms to create alternative value 
propositions. Recent years have seen the multiplication of citizen-led energy 
cooperatives. These initiatives are often presented in ways that are too technical 
and not very appealing. They have difficulties explaining how they create value 
and why they are important. To help citizen-led energy project gain visibility, 
cooperative of cooperative have created stories they can use to communicate 
about their project. Other organizations are trying to help energy cooperatives 
develop a brand that talks to a broader public and to which people can relate. 
Relatedly, due to increasing competitive rivalry, incumbent energy suppliers need 
to find ways to differentiate themselves from the competition by offering 
innovative and unique value propositions to their customers. However, they do 
not always have the competences in-house to propose radically new services. That 
is why they partner with others, usually small start-ups. The oldest green energy 
supplier, for instance, developed an exclusive relationship with the start-up which 
crowdfunds wind turbines and allows virtually anyone to become co-owner of a 
wind turbine and use the electricity it produces to decrease their monthly bill. By 
supporting other firms in their ecosystem, incumbents are able to diversify their 
value proposition to their customers, thus increasing their chances to retain old 
customers and to attract new ones.  
Second, we observed that other business models are able to provide the 
complementary assets necessary to deliver alternative forms of customer value. 
To operate in the power market, producers need to comply with multiple norms 
and standards and understand procedures to obtain the required permits and 
certifications. This administrative work makes it difficult for outsiders to enter the 
market. Various organizations in our sample have developed a core value 
proposition which consists of providing knowledge that alternative producers 
need to navigate through this strictly regulated market. These organizations 
perform activities that require specific expertise. Based on the observation that 
organizing the back office is quite complicated and requires high levels of 
investment, a cooperative of cooperative was created in 2013 to take care of these 
administrative issues for small energy cooperatives. Later on, they also started 
performing customer services for the cooperatives. Likewise, crowdfunding 
platforms give the possibility to energy cooperatives to crowdfund their project 
which helps cooperatives to become financially sustainable and to meet their 
objective of local energy production (Elzenga & Schwencke, 2014). 
Complementors can also be necessary to be able to operate. A special license is 

 
 
for instance mandatory to supply electricity and small alternative producers often 
use the license of larger players.  
Third, some business model innovations are able to transform the dominant 
industry logic by providing key complementary assets necessary for business 
models propagating an alternative logic to capture more value. Some platforms, 
for instance, give small energy producers direct access to end consumers, thereby 
helping them increase their revenues. Because they need the renewable energy 
production of the cooperative, some green energy suppliers pay cooperatives a 
fee for each member that becomes their customer. This process helps 
cooperatives diversify their revenues and be more financially sustainable. Besides, 
as explained above, large oligopolies dominate the industry that benefit from a 
quasi-monopolistic situation in the region where they originated. This nature of 
the market, combined with the low switching rate of energy supplier, makes it very 
difficult for new entrants to penetrate the market. Some organizations provide 
distribution channels that new players need to capture market share. For instance, 
a few organizations offer customers the possibility to participate in collective 
buying of electricity. Our data suggest that only new entrants respond to these 
types of bids and use this channel to gain customers. An association of home-
owners regularly organizes these types of bids and among the winners we find 
new entrants such as Budget Energie, founded in 2011, or Vandebron, founded in 
2013. Even though participating firms have to make a very competitive offer to 
gain the bid, when they do, they are able to directly capture a share of the market 
and start generating revenues. Similarly, because they have limited budget for 
marketing and lack access to the distribution channels, start-ups often have 
difficulties reaching the mass market. Incumbents can play an important role, 
thereby acting as an intermediary between their offer and the end-consumers. An 
incumbent for example, developed a partnership with a start-up that proposes 
customers to lease – rather than buy – solar panels. In this way, they are able to 
“reach two million households, which is the client base of [the incumbent]”. Finally, 
we also find firms coming from other sectors that start selling renewable energy 
technologies. A multinational specialized in furniture and home accessories 
started selling turnkey PV panels in 2014 (de Boer, 2014). By providing an 
additional sales channel for the technology, this multinational makes solar energy 
visible for potential customers and contribute to broadening the market segment 
that is susceptible to buy the technology. 
While the first two mechanisms directly contribute to creating an alternative for 
the dominant industry logic, the complementing mechanism works in an indirect 

 
 
way by allowing others to undermine the dominant industry logic and create an 
alternative logic. We found several business models that allow others to develop 
a more elaborate value proposition. Interestingly, this mechanism was both 
reflected in assistance provided to under-resourced start-ups and in well-
resourced incumbents seeking partnerships with start-ups with unique assets. 
Such business models also tried to open up the existing market for new entrants 
by removing entry barriers or by helping to increase the total market for 
renewable energy sources. 
5. The interplay within and between the three 
mechanisms  
In this section, we develop a dynamic model of the performative role of firm-level 
business model innovations in inducing a change in the dominant industry logic 
(see Figure 1). In the previous section, we described three mechanisms that play a 
role in changing the dominant industry logic in isolation: undermining the 
dominant industry logic, creating an alternative logic, complementing business 
models that form the foundation of the alternative logic. Building on these three 
individual mechanisms, our dynamic model describes two types of interaction 
effects among them: (1) self-reinforcing effects (see provide a template in Figure 
1) and (2) mutually reinforcing effects (see increase market opportunities, provide 
disconfirming evidence and trigger a virtuous cycle with business model co-
evolution in Figure 1).  
5.1 Self-reinforcing effects 
When a business model that fulfils an undermining, creating or complementing 
role is first released, it may only have limited impact on the dominant industry 
logic. As a shared cognitive template (Bettis & Prahalad, 1995; Prahalad & Bettis, 
1986), the dominant industry logic creates cognitive barriers that filter how firms 
define what is a good way to create and capture value in a given industry. This 
dominant industry logic can be very difficult to change, even more so in mature 
industries (Kim & Mauborgne, 2004), as it becomes ingrained in the organizations 
(Bohnsack et al., 2014; Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002). Sull (1999) talks about 
active inertia to highlight the difficulties firms face to change their way of doing 
business. Moreover, when they are first launched, alternative business models 
appear unattractive for incumbent actors (McGrath, 2010). Christensen’s (1997) 

 
 
work implies that alternative business models tend to have a value proposition 
that targets customers currently not served by the incumbents. They also tend to 
have a revenue model that incumbents consider unattractive and/or build on 
resources and competences that they do not have. Especially when they require 
changes in customer preferences, alternative business models can be confined to 
small niche markets (Johnson & Suskewicz, 2009) and their effectiveness to move 
beyond these niche markets is surrounded with uncertainty (Andries & Debackere, 
2007). This uncertainty can result in firms adopting a strategy of wait-and-see 
what others are doing and whether that is successful, or not (Parandian, Rip, & Te 
Kulve, 2012). Consequently, changing the dominant industry logic takes time and 
requires the consecutive and simultaneous performative action of multiple 
business model innovations.  
Our findings suggest that when multiple business model innovations leverage the 
same mechanism in trying to change the dominant industry logic, a self-reinforcing 
mechanism can arise that augments the effect of this mechanism (see provide a 
template in Figure 2). When entrepreneurs develop new ventures, they do not 
start from scratch but instead search for inspiration from other firms. Baden-Fuller 
and Winter (2007) argue that business models can be “models” or “templates” for 
other firms to imitate. They are part of the repertoire entrepreneurs can draw on 
or refer to when creating new ventures (Doganova & Eyquem-Renault, 2009). 
There are various reasons why alternative business models, when imitated, induce 
a self-reinforcing mechanism. Business models are more likely to spread in an 
industry if they are scalable (Sarasini & Linder, 2018), which means that they have 
the “ability to increase revenues faster than the corresponding cost base” 
(Stampfl, Prügl, & Osterloh, 2013, p. 229). As increasingly more firms adopt 
alternative business models, other firms can gather additional knowledge about 
the new business model, which also gives it legitimacy and increases customer 
acceptance (Aldrich & Fiol, 1994). When alternative business models start to erode 
the competitive position of the incumbents and disrupt the competitive status quo 
(Ferrier, Smith, & Grimm, 1999), firms with alternative business models start to be 
perceived as having superior information and become “fashion leaders” 
(Bikhchandani, Hirshleifer, & Welch, 1998). These reinforcing mechanisms 
become even stronger as larger firms start adopting these alternative business 
models as well. Incumbents tend to copy innovative new entrants when they see 
that the market for alternative products or services is becoming more lucrative 
and that firms with alternative business models are capturing ever larger parts of 
this market (Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund, & Hansen, 2016). Larger and more 
profitable firms are often perceived as having better access to information thanks 

 
 
to their large investments in R&D and marketing (Lieberman & Asaba, 2006) and 
are therefore more likely to be imitated (Haunschild & Miner, 1997; Haveman, 
1993). Besides, having a strong presence on mass markets, incumbents are likely 
to increase the legitimacy of alternative business models (Hockerts & 
Wüstenhagen, 2010) and further accelerate a change in the dominant industry 
logic.  
This self-reinforcing mechanism can be illustrated by one example. The Dutch 
market has seen a real boom in renewable energy offers. The market entry of 
multiple green electricity suppliers is often mentioned for having forced large 
incumbents to include renewable power in their offers and revisit what is the best 
way to meet customer demands. As one interviewee explained, green electricity 
suppliers “are growing so fast. I am sure that has caused the traditional players to 
introduce their own green products. There is a market evolving because of this. 
That probably wouldn't have evolved if these new players hadn't been there”. 
Besides, these green electricity suppliers often operated as energy retailers. They 
showed that it is possible to sell electricity without having to own capital-intensive 
production assets. The energy retailer became a template imitated by many new 
entrants that focused on customer value for green electricity. As these new 
suppliers started capturing part of the market, incumbents felt that their core 
business model was under threat. In response, they used the business model of 
these new suppliers as a template to imitate as they enriched their business model 
portfolio. 
Business model innovations can also be self-reinforcing when they affect different 
dimensions of the dominant industry logic simultaneously. We found that novel 
business models do not only allow scaling because they act as templates for other 
firms (Doganova & Eyquem-Renault, 2009), but also because, through their 
interaction, they are jointly more effective in performing their specific role of 
undermining, creating or complementing. For example, our data show that 
business models of comparison sites undermine the power of incumbent actors in 
the value chain by increasing the volatility of the retailing market and improving 
market transparency. However, the undermining effect of this business model 
remained limited in the first years after the business model was released. One 
comparison site founder explained that when he first launched his platform, 
“nothing happened”, people did not visit his website. It was only a few years later, 
after a price-fighter had entered the industry, that he started to get more visits to 
his comparison site. This price fighter undermined the well-established structure 
of prices on the industry and made differences between producers more salient. 

 
 
It also undermined the prevailing definition of customer value by showing that 
customers do not have to be held captive by incumbent utilities. This example 
suggests that different business model innovations can be catalysts for each other 
in performing a specific role which leads to a self-reinforcing mechanism because 
each affects a different dimension of the dominant industry logic. 
5.2 Mutually-reinforcing effects 
Our findings suggest that when multiple business model innovations leverage 
different mechanisms in trying to change the dominant industry logic, a mutually-
reinforcing effect between undermining, creating and complementing can arise 
that augments the performative impact of each single mechanism (see increase 
market opportunities, provide disconfirming evidence and trigger a virtuous cycle 
with business model co-evolution in Figure 1). Our findings suggest, for example, 
that undermining the dominant industry logic is necessary to create space for a 
new logic to emerge. Undermining the dominant industry logic helps challenging 
its legitimacy. Business model innovations can do that by questioning the moral 
foundation on which these business model elements are based (Ahmadjian & 
Robinson, 2001). This delegitimization process creates market space for new types 
of products or services (Tolbert, David, & Sine, 2011) and opens opportunities for 
organizations to develop alternative business models that are based on different 
sets of values (Hiatt, Sine, & Tolbert, 2009). Business models can also make the 
dominant industry logic less effective or ineffective (Oliver, 1992) and make the 
need to develop alternative business models more salient (Sine & David, 2003). 
Creating alternative business models and breaking with the prevailing industry 
logic (Garud, Hardy, & Maguire, 2007) is a way to show that another logic is 
possible. As these alternative business models start to successfully gain market 
share, they also provide disconfirming evidence of the viability of the prevailing 
industry logic (Sine & David, 2003), thereby reinforcing the undermining 
mechanism. Various interviewees from organizations selling locally-produced 
renewable electricity explained that the existence of a ranking of energy suppliers 
was crucial to create market opportunities for them. The ranking undermines 
prevailing customer values by showing customers that not all green electricity is 
green in the same way. It delegitimized prevailing conceptions of customer value, 
thus creating market opportunities for firms that develop an alternative logic of 
value creation, based on local production, and speeding up their market 
penetration. Asked about the importance of the ranking, one interviewee 

 
 
explained: “It is important. A lot of customers are making the selection on the good 
companies. So, we are proud to be number one”.  
Finally, our data suggests that when the three mechanisms are in place, a virtuous 
cycle can emerge leading firm-level business models to co-evolve (Schaltegger et 
al., 2016) and induce deep changes to the dominant industry logic. In the mid-
2000s, a cooperative of wind turbine owners launched a business model based on 
an alternative value proposition: they allowed interested customers to select the 
wind turbine they wanted to support with their electricity bill –they tried to colour 
the electron. Each farmer had their own page called “Molenaarspaspoorten” 
where they could present their farm and renewable energy production. Customers 
could choose from whom they would like to buy electricity. A few years later, the 
service had to be abandoned: the offer did not sufficiently appeal to customers 
and they lacked a complementor willing to organize their back-office. In 2018, 
though, a plethora of energy suppliers proposes locally produced renewable 
electricity (Wise Nederland, 2018). These business model innovations managed to 
reinvent value (Massa et al., 2017; Normann & Ramirez, 1993; Priem, 2007) by 
creating customer benefits that go well beyond the physical materiality of the 
basic commodity that electricity is (Bansal & Knox-Hayes, 2013). Organizations 
were able to create a narrative around locality: electricity is produced “on Dutch 
soil”. They gained market share by giving people the possibility to choose and trace 
their electron and give it a color. As explained in the commercial of an alternative 
supplier: your electricity can come from “the PV panels of your energy-conscious 
aunt Karin or from the wind turbine of the farmer a bit further”.  
Value creation has been decoupled from the commodity’s physical materiality 
(Bansal & Knox-Hayes, 2013), as organizations developed narratives to trigger a 
hedonic emotional response to their value proposition (Straker & Wrigley, 2015). 
This move towards a more customer-centered business model logic (Richter, 
2013) also modifies the composition and structure of the value networks and 
cause a redistribution of value between actors in the value chain (Sabatier et al., 
2012). A different business ecosystem of interdependent organizations seems to 
be emerging (Adner, 2006). Electricity is a very mature and highly regulated 
market where new entrants have to compete or sometimes depend on 
incumbents to access key complementary assets. Some organizations specifically 
position themselves as intermediaries or facilitators that can provide new entrants 
these complementary assets and help them gain in autonomy. Besides, 
incumbents increasingly draw on small entrepreneurial firms to propose 
innovative services to their customers. We argue that this has been possible 

 
 
because a virtuous cycle (Casadesus-Masanell & Ricart, 2011) emerged with firms 
co-evolving their business model (Schaltegger et al., 2016) around the alternative 
logic of proposing locally produced renewable electricity. Figure 2 illustrates the 
emergence of this virtuous cycle.  
6. DISCUSSION  
6.1 Contribution to business model innovation  
Our paper makes several contributions to the literature on business model 
innovation (Charles Baden-Fuller & Mangematin, 2013; Bohnsack et al., 2014; 
Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002). This literature suggests that business model 
innovation may have dramatic impacts on the dominant logic of an industry by 
creating an alternative logic that over time replaces the prevailing logic 
(Chesbrough & Rosenbloom, 2002). Along these lines, previous studies have 
further suggested that business models can develop value propositions based on 
alternative definitions of what customers want (Bohnsack & Pinkse, 2017), put 
forward new revenue models (Bolton & Hannon, 2016; Chesbrough & 
Rosenbloom, 2002), or reorganize existing value chains (Chesbrough & 
Rosenbloom, 2002; Kim & Mauborgne, 2004). Our findings both support and 
extend these studies in three ways.  
First, our findings suggest that business models can have a performative role in 
reinventing what constitutes value in an industry which is then emulated by other 
actors in the industry. Over the past two decades, in the Netherlands, 
organizations have consistently generated variations on existing business models 
or developed radically new business models, thus suggesting new templates for 
how value can be created, delivered and captured in the electricity industry. These 
novel templates are now being adopted by incumbents—that are the traditional 
custodians of the dominant industry logic—which indicates that a new logic is 
currently emerging in the Dutch electricity sector. We show that a key part of this 
process is that business model innovations reinvent value (Kim & Mauborgne, 
2004; Massa et al., 2017; Normann & Ramirez, 1993; Priem, 2007) by creating new 
customer benefits for a basic commodity that go beyond its physical materiality. 
Organizations have been able to decouple value creation from the commodity’s 
physical materiality (Bansal & Knox-Hayes, 2013), in this case electricity, by 
developing narratives around locality and environmental sustainability. This 

 
 
pattern where particularly new entrants propose radically new business models 
which are then emulated by incumbents has been identified before in the business 
model literature (Bohnsack et al., 2014; Hockerts & Wüstenhagen, 2010). 
However, we show how reinventing value, in our case by ‘coloring the electron’, 
forms a key part of this emulation process because it is the new added value that 
makes the alternative business models attractive.  
Second, we identify three mechanisms whereby firm-level business model 
innovations can induce change in a dominant industry logic. The business model 
literature so far has identified that business models play a performative role in 
changing a dominant industry logic through a creating mechanism (Chesbrough & 
Rosenbloom, 2002; Sabatier et al., 2012; Vernay & Gauthier, 2019). For the 
performative impact of business model innovation to be more profound, it seems 
that, in addition to the creating mechanism, the two other mechanisms—
undermining the dominant logic and complementing of isolated firm-level 
business model innovations—are of critical importance. The undermining 
mechanism is key as it creates a window of opportunity for new actors to enter 
the industry with business models that do not fully comply with the dominant 
industry logic (Geels, 2002; Verbong & Geels, 2007). We expect this mechanism to 
be especially important in industries that are mature and where the dominant 
logic is so deeply engrained that most firms design their business model so as to 
fit in (Kim & Mauborgne, 2004). Regarding the complementing mechanism, it plays 
an indirect role in changing the dominant industry logic, therefore acting as a 
catalyzer of change instead. Indeed, complementors are important to help other 
organizations that could undermine the dominant industry logic or create a new 
one to enter and sustain themselves (Brandenburger & Nalebuff, 1996). 
Complementing takes the form of providing complementary assets that help 
increase the market value of alternative business models. These complementary 
assets can be very diverse, ranging from knowledge and expertise to access to 
distribution channels or connections with end customers, and the provision of 
services (Teece, 1986). This performative role of complementors highlights a 
unique feature of business model innovation, that is, demand-side value creation 
where ‘value is being created by someone other than the producer’ (Massa et al., 
2017, p. 93) 
Third, we identify two types of reinforcing effects that augment the power of the 
undermining, creating and complementing mechanisms and thus develop a 
dynamic model of how firm-level business model innovations induce change in a 
dominant industry logic. While Casadesus-Masanell and Ricart (2011) argued for a 

 
 
self-reinforcing effect between different components of a business model, we 
extend this insight by moving it to the industry level in the form of reinforcing 
effects between business models. Such reinforcing occurs when enough firms are 
implementing business model innovations that create virtuous cycles between 
them. All three mechanisms can have self-reinforcing effects as well as mutually-
reinforcing effects. These reinforcing effects are important because they help 
induce change in industries that are prone to path-dependency (Liebowitz & 
Margolis, 1995), such as health-care (Hatchuel et al., 2016), energy (Garud & 
Karnøe, 2003), urban planning (Couch, Sykes, & Börstinghaus, 2011) and 
transportation (Åhman & Nilsson, 2008). These industries are also key in ensuring 
transitions towards more sustainable societies. In such systems, the dominant 
industry logic leads to increasing returns making alternative business models 
unattractive (Arthur, 1989). In this case, incumbent firms can also be hindered by 
behavioral path dependencies, limiting the range of business models that they 
consider as attractive (Sydow, Schreyögg, & Koch, 2009). In both cases, it is 
necessary to weaken and delegitimize the dominant logic to create space for an 
alternative logic to emerge.   
6.2 Practical implications 
A first practical implication of this paper is to gain a better understanding of the 
dynamics of the Dutch electricity market. Interestingly, the undermining 
mechanism in the Dutch electricity market can either be supported by firms that 
are directly competing with incumbents operating according to the dominant 
industry logic, by firms that position themselves as intermediary in the value chain 
(e.g. between customers and suppliers), or by non-governmental organizations. 
Our case study shows, for instance, that by undermining prevailing definitions 
about what customers want, the role of NGOs is important in informing customers 
and raising their awareness. Part of the reason for high NGO involvement, 
especially in undermining the prevailing dominant logic, is the highly politicized 
nature of the energy industry. Out of concern about issues like climate change, 
governments and NGOs are relatively more involved in this market compared to 
other markets. Nonetheless, the prevalence of the complementing mechanism in 
our findings also indicates a trend where firms are not necessarily involved in an 
industry to compete head-on with the incumbent firms but rather create space for 
themselves by being in the role of complementor instead (Brandenburger & 
Nalebuff, 1996). This finding suggests that the change in dominant industry logic 
is not only in a direction where electricity is becoming a highly differentiated value 

 
 
proposition – that is, a move towards product-service systems (Reim, Parida, & 
Örtqvist, 2015) – but also one where the vertically integrated value chain evolves 
into an ecosystem (or platform) of focal firms and complementors (Adner, 2017; 
Jacobides, Cennamo, & Gawer, 2018). In other words, the alternative logic 
emerging in the Dutch electricity market reflects a change in the value that is being 
created and captured as well as a change in transactions occurring in the value 
chain.  
A second practical implication of our study relates to how policymakers may 
effectively induce change in targeted sectors. When promoting private initiatives 
and innovation programs to reshuffle the logic of an industry, policymakers can 
adopt a different support strategy depending on how mature the industry is. The 
more mature an industry is, the more policymakers should work towards helping 
firms with complementing and undermining business models. These firms are 
likely to lack support because they may not seem as innovative as the ones that 
actually innovate in creating an alternative logic. However, our study emphasizes 
their importance in inducing change in the dominant industry logic when an 
industry is mature.  
6.3 Limitations and direction for future research 
The limitations for this study, as any empirical study, pertain to its research design. 
First, by focusing on the role of business model innovation in inducing change in 
the dominant logic of the electricity supply industry, we did not examine the role 
of energy policies that led to the decarbonation of the sector. These policies, of 
course, also had an impact on changing the dominant industry logic. Our decision 
to focus on business model innovation was motivated by (1) existing literature 
suggesting the impact of business model innovation in changing the dominant 
industry logic in the electricity sector in the Netherlands and (2) the importance 
to clearly isolate and conceptualize the mechanisms that specifically pertain to 
how business model innovation induces change in the dominant industry logic. 
Future research could investigate the interactions between public policy and 
business model innovation in inducing change in a dominant industry logic. 
Second, because of the incompleteness of our data—collecting data on the 
business model of an entire industry over a sixteen years period necessarily entails 
to missing data—we cannot have a dynamic account of “when” which mechanism 
is present the most. We only infer a dynamic model and suggest the presence of 
interaction effects. Further research could investigate the relative impact of these 

 
 
three mechanisms on change in the dominant industry logic, as well as their 
interaction effects. 
7. Conclusion 
The idea that business model innovation can induce change in the dominant logic 
of an industry echoes a growing interest in the role of business models in inducing 
sustainability transitions (Bidmon & Knab, 2018; Bolton & Hannon, 2016; Sarasini 
& Linder, 2018). While the interest for this phenomenon initially stems from the 
intellectual tradition of organizations and the natural environment, this paper is 
an attempt to generalize both the empirical and theoretical scope of this 
phenomenon. We identify three mechanisms whereby business models induce 
change in the dominant logic of an industry: undermining a dominant logic, 
creating an alternative logic, and complementing the alternative logic. We believe 
that understanding how business model innovation relates to wider industrial 
dynamics is an exciting avenue for research and that our paper is only a first step 
in this direction.  
References 
ACER. (2016). ACER/CEER Annual Report on the Results of Monitoring the Internal 
Electricity and Gas Markets in 2015 – Retail Markets. Retrieved from 
Ljubljana and Brussels:  
ACM. (2016). Voor energieconsument valt er veel te kiezen. Retrieved from 
https://www.acm.nl/nl/publicaties/publicatie/15763/Voor-
energieconsument-valt-er-veel-te-kiezen/ 
ACM. (2017). Energiemonitor 2017: Consumentenmarkt elektriciteit en gas. 
Retrieved from https://www.acm.nl/sites/default/files/documents/2017-
11/2017-energiemonitor.pdf 
ACM. (2018). Energiemonitor 2018: Consumentenmarkt elektriciteit en gas 
Retrieved from https://www.acm.nl/sites/default/files/documents/2018-
06/energiemonitor-2018_0.pdf 
Adner, R. (2006). Match your innovation strategy to your innovation ecosystem. 
Harvard Business Review, 84(4), 98-107.  
Adner, R. (2017). Ecosystem as structure: An actionable construct for strategy. 
Journal of Management, 43(1), 39-58.  
Ahmadjian, C. L., & Robinson, P. (2001). Safety in numbers: Downsizing and the 
deinstitutionalization of permanent employment in Japan. Administrative 
Science Quarterly, 46(4), 622-654.  

 
 
Åhman, M., & Nilsson, L. J. (2008). Path dependency and the future of advanced 
vehicles and biofuels. Utilities Policy, 16(2), 80-89.  
Aldrich, H. E., & Fiol, C. M. (1994). Fools Rush in? The Institutional Context of 
Industry Creation. Academy of Management Review, 19(4), 645-670. 
Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/258740.  
Andries, P., & Debackere, K. (2007). Adaptation and performance in new 
businesses: Understanding the moderating effects of independence and 
industry. Small Business Economics, 29(1-2), 81-99.  
Arthur, W. B. (1989). Competing technologies, increasing returns, and lock-in by 
historical events. The Economic Journal, 99(394), 116-131.  
Baden-Fuller, C., & Haefliger, S. (2013). Business models and technological 
innovation. Long Range Planning, 46(6), 419-426.  
Baden-Fuller, C., & Mangematin, V. (2013). Business models: A challenging 
agenda. Strategic Organization, 11(4), 418-427.  
Baden-Fuller, C., & Morgan, M. S. (2010). Business Models as Models. Long Range 
Planning, 
43(2-3), 
156-171. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0024630110000117. 
doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2010.02.005 
Baden-Fuller, C., & Winter, S. (2007). Replicating knowledge practices: Principles 
or templates. Retrieved from London:  
Bansal, P., & Knox-Hayes, J. (2013). The time and space of materiality in 
organizations and the natural environment. Organization & Environment, 
26(1), 61-82.  
Bettis, R. A., & Prahalad, C. K. (1995). The dominant logic: Retrospective and 
extension. Strategic Management Journal, 16(1), 5-14.  
Bidmon, C. M., & Knab, S. F. (2018). The three roles of business models in societal 
transitions: New linkages between business model and transition research. 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 178, 903-916.  
Bikhchandani, S., Hirshleifer, D., & Welch, I. (1998). Learning from the behavior of 
others: Conformity, fads, and informational cascades. Journal of Economic 
Perspectives, 12(3), 151-170.  
Bohnsack, R., & Pinkse, J. (2017). Value propositions for disruptive technologies: 
Reconfiguration tactics in the case of electric vehicles. California 
Management Review, 59(4), 79-96.  
Bohnsack, R., Pinkse, J., & Kolk, A. (2014). Business models for sustainable 
technologies: Exploring business model evolution in the case of electric 
vehicles. 
Research 
Policy, 
43(2), 
284-300. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048733313001935. 
doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2013.10.014 

 
 
Bolton, R., & Hannon, M. (2016). Governing sustainability transitions through 
business model innovation: Towards a systems understanding. Research 
Policy, 45(9), 1731-1742.  
Brandenburger, A. M., & Nalebuff, B. J. (1996). The Right Game: Use Game Theory 
to Shape Strategy. Harvard Business Review, 73(4), 57-71.  
Casadesus-Masanell, R., & Ricart, J. E. (2011). How to design a winning business 
model. Harvard Business Review, 89(1/2), 100-107.  
CBS. (2018). Mainly more green electricity from solar power. Retrieved from 
https://www.cbs.nl/en-gb/news/2019/09/mainly-more-green-electricity-
from-solar-power 
Chesbrough, H. W. (2010). Business Model Innovation: Opportunities and Barriers. 
Long Range Planning, 43(2-3), 354-363.  
Chesbrough, H. W., & Rosenbloom, R. S. (2002). The role of the business model in 
capturing value from innovation: evidence from Xerox Corporation's 
technology spin-off companies. Industrial and Corporate Change, 11(3), 529-
555. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://icc.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/11/3/529. 
doi:10.1093/icc/11.3.529 
Christensen, C. M. (1997). The Innovator's Dilemma: When New Technologies 
Cause Great Firms to Fail. Boston: Harvard Business School Press. 
Corbin, J., & Strauss, A. (2014). Basics of qualitative research: Techniques and 
procedures for developing grounded theory: Sage publications. 
Couch, C., Sykes, O., & Börstinghaus, W. (2011). Thirty years of urban regeneration 
in Britain, Germany and France: The importance of context and path 
dependency. Progress in planning, 75(1), 1-52.  
de Boer, J. (2014). Zonnepanelen van IKEA: hoe interessant zijn ze? Retrieved from 
https://www.businessinsider.nl/zonnepanelen-van-ikea-hoe-interessant-
zijn-ze-510217/ 
Demil, B., & Lecocq, X. (2010). Business Model Evolution: In Search of Dynamic 
Consistency. Long Range Planning, 43(2–3), 227-246. Retrieved from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0024630110000105. 
doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2010.02.004 
Doganova, L., & Eyquem-Renault, M. (2009). What do business models do?: 
Innovation devices in technology entrepreneurship. Research Policy, 38(10), 
1559-1570. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048733309001668. 
doi:10.1016/j.respol.2009.08.002 

 
 
Drury, E., Miller, M., Macal, C. M., Graziano, D. J., Heimiller, D., Ozik, J., & Perry IV, 
T. D. (2012). The transformation of southern California's residential 
photovoltaics market through third-party ownership. Energy Policy, 42, 681-
690.  
ECN. (2001). Energy Market Trends in the Netherlands 2001. Retrieved from 
Petten:  
Elzenga, 
H., 
& 
Schwencke, 
A. 
(2014). 
Energiecoöperaties: 
ambities, 
handelingsperspectief en interactie met gemeenten. De energieke 
samenleving in praktijk. Retrieved from Den Haag:  
Ferrier, W. J., Smith, K. G., & Grimm, C. M. (1999). The role of competitive action 
in market share erosion and industry dethronement: A study of industry 
leaders and challengers. Academy of Management Journal, 42(4), 372-388.  
Fischer, C. (2008). Feedback on household electricity consumption: a tool for 
saving energy? Energy efficiency, 1(1), 79-104.  
Garud, R., Hardy, C., & Maguire, S. (2007). Institutional entrepreneurship as 
embedded agency: An introduction to the special issue. Organization 
Studies, 28(7), 957.  
Garud, R., & Karnøe, P. (2003). Bricolage versus breakthrough: distributed and 
embedded agency in technology entrepreneurship. Research Policy, 32(2), 
277-300. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6V77-479TM54-
2/2/c82fb5b177ec4bc2d5d5f12589458d78.  
Gauthier, C., & Gilomen, B. (2016). Business models for sustainability: energy 
efficiency in urban districts. Organization & Environment, 29(1), 124-144.  
Geels, F. W. (2002). Technological transitions as evolutionary reconfiguration 
processes: a multi-level perspective and a case-study. Research Policy, 31, 
1257-1274.  
Gioia, D. A., Corley, K. G., & Hamilton, A. L. (2013). Seeking Qualitative Rigor in 
Inductive Research: Notes on the Gioia Methodology. Organizational 
Research 
Methods, 
16(1), 
15-31. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://orm.sagepub.com/content/16/1/15.abstract. 
doi:10.1177/1094428112452151 
Hatchuel, A., Le Masson, P., Weil, B., Agogué, M., Kazakçi, A., & Hooge, S. (2016). 
Multiple forms of applications and impacts of a design theory: 10 years of 
industrial applications of CK theory. In Impact of Design Research on 
Industrial Practice (pp. 189-208): Springer. 
Haunschild, P. R., & Miner, A. S. (1997). Modes of interorganizational imitation: 
The effects of outcome salience and uncertainty. Administrative Science 
Quarterly, 472-500.  

 
 
Haveman, H. A. (1993). Follow the leader: Mimetic isomorphism and entry into 
new markets. Administrative Science Quarterly, 593-627.  
He, X., & Reiner, D. (2015). Why do more British consumers not switch energy 
suppliers? The role of individual attitudes. Cambridge Working Papers in 
Economics(CPWE1525).  
Hiatt, S. R., Sine, W. D., & Tolbert, P. S. (2009). From Pabst to Pepsi: The 
deinstitutionalization of social practices and the creation of entrepreneurial 
opportunities. Administrative Science Quarterly, 54(4), 635-667.  
Hockerts, K., & Wüstenhagen, R. (2010). Greening Goliaths versus emerging Davids 
- Theorizing about the role of incumbents and new entrants in sustainable 
entrepreneurship. Journal of Business Venturing, 25(5), 481-492. Retrieved 
from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6VDH-4XRJGPK-
1/2/9e5265b3f2c4b1c7d7d90e542518e5de.  
Huijben, J. C. C. M. and Verbong G. P. J. (2013). Breakthrough without subsidies? 
PV business model experiments in the Netherlands. Energy Policy, 56, 362-
370.  
Jacobides, M. G., Cennamo, C., & Gawer, A. (2018). Towards a theory of 
ecosystems. Strategic Management Journal.  
Johnson, M. W., & Suskewicz, J. (2009). How to Jump-Start the Clean Economy. 
Harvard Business Review, 87(11), 52-60.  
Kim, W. C., & Mauborgne, R. (2004). Blue Ocean Strategy. Harvard Business 
Review, 82(10), 76-84.  
Klemperer, P. (1987). The competitiveness of markets with switching costs. The 
RAND Journal of Economics, 18(1), 138-150.  
Langley, A. (1999). Strategies for theorizing from process data. Academy of 
Management Review, 24(4), 691-710.  
Lieberman, M. B., & Asaba, S. (2006). Why do firms imitate each other? Academy 
of Management Review, 31(2), 366-385.  
Liebowitz, S. J., & Margolis, S. E. (1995). Path dependence, lock-in, and history. 
Journal of Law, Economics, & Organization, 205-226.  
Locke, K. (2001). Grounded theory in management research. Thousand Oaks: Sage. 
Massa, L., Tucci, C. L., & Afuah, A. (2017). A critical assessment of business model 
research. Academy of Management Annals, 11(1), 73-104.  
McGrath, R. G. (2010). Business models: A discovery driven approach. Long Range 
Planning, 43(2-3), 247-261.  
Normann, R., & Ramirez, R. (1993). From value chain to value constellation: 
Designing interactive strategy. Harvard Business Review, 71(4), 65-77.  
Novem. (2002). Renewable Energy in the Netherlands 2001 Retrieved from 
Utrecht:  

 
 
Oliver, C. (1992). The antecedents of deinstitutionalization. Organization Studies, 
13(4), 563-588.  
Parandian, A., Rip, A., & Te Kulve, H. (2012). Dual dynamics of promises, and 
waiting games around emerging nanotechnologies. Technology Analysis & 
Strategic Management, 24(6), 565-582.  
Perkmann, M., & Spicer, A. (2014). How Emerging Organizations Take Form: The 
Role of Imprinting and Values in Organizational Bricolage. Organization 
Science, 25(6), 1785-1806.  
Prahalad, C. K., & Bettis, R. A. (1986). The dominant logic: A new linkage between 
diversity and performance. Strategic Management Journal, 7(6), 485-501.  
Priem, R. L. (2007). A consumer perspective on value creation. Academy of 
Management Review, 32(1), 219-235.  
Reim, W., Parida, V., & Örtqvist, D. (2015). Product–Service Systems (PSS) business 
models and tactics–a systematic literature review. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 97, 61-75.  
Richter, M. (2013). Business model innovation for sustainable energy: German 
utilities and renewable energy. Energy Policy, 62, 1226-1237.  
Sabatier, V., Craig-Kennard, A., & Mangematin, V. (2012). When technological 
discontinuities and disruptive business models challenge dominant industry 
logics: Insights from the drugs industry. Technological Forecasting and Social 
Change, 79(5), 949-962.  
Sabatier, V., Mangematin, V., & Rousselle, T. (2010). From recipe to dinner: 
business model portfolios in the European biopharmaceutical industry. Long 
Range Planning, 43(2-3), 431-447.  
Sarasini, S., & Linder, M. (2018). Integrating a business model perspective into 
transition theory: The example of new mobility services. Environmental 
Innovation and Societal Transitions, 27, 16-31.  
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Hansen, E. G. (2016). Business Models for 
Sustainability: A Co-Evolutionary Analysis of Sustainable Entrepreneurship, 
Innovation, and Transformation. Organization & Environment, 29(3), 264-
289. Retrieved from http://oae.sagepub.com/content/29/3/264.abstract. 
doi:10.1177/1086026616633272 
Sine, W. D., & David, R. J. (2003). Environmental jolts, institutional change, and the 
creation of entrepreneurial opportunity in the US electric power industry. 
Research 
Policy, 
32(2), 
185-207. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/B6V77-46WPNW1-
3/2/5eb12532964df023391b895118191601.  
Stampfl, G., Prügl, R., & Osterloh, V. (2013). An explorative model of business 
model scalability. International Journal of Product Development, 18(3-4), 
226-248.  

 
 
Straker, K., & Wrigley, C. (2015). The role of emotion in product, service and 
business model design. Journal of Entrepreneurship, Management and 
Innovation, 11(1), 11-28.  
Strupeit, L., & Palm, A. (2016). Overcoming barriers to renewable energy diffusion: 
business models for customer-sited solar photovoltaics in Japan, Germany 
and the United States. Journal of Cleaner Production, 123, 124-136.  
Sull, D. N. (1999). Why good companies go bad? Harvard Business Review, 77(4), 
42-42.  
Sydow, J., Schreyögg, G., & Koch, J. (2009). Organizational path dependence: 
Opening the black box. Academy of Management Review, 34(4), 689-709.  
Teece, D. J. (1986). Profiting from technological innovation: Implications for 
integration, collaboration, licensing and public policy. Research Policy, 15(6), 
285-305.  
Teece, D. J. (2010). Business Models, Business Strategy and Innovation. Long 
Range 
Planning, 
43(2-3), 
172-194. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S002463010900051X. 
doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.003 
Teece, D. J., Pisano, G., & Shuen, A. (1997). Dynamic capabilities and strategic 
management. Strategic Management Journal, 18(7), 509-533.  
Tolbert, P. S., David, R. J., & Sine, W. D. (2011). Studying choice and change: The 
intersection of institutional theory and entrepreneurship research. 
Organization Science, 22(5), 1332-1344.  
Tripsas, M., & Gavetti, G. (2000). Capabilities, cognition, and inertia: evidence from 
digital imaging. Strategic Management Journal, 21(10-11), 1147-1161. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/1097-
0266(200010/11)21:10/11<1147::AID-SMJ128>3.0.CO;2-R. 
doi:10.1002/1097-0266(200010/11)21:10/11<1147::AID-SMJ128>3.0.CO;2-
R 
Van Damme, E. (2005). Liberalizing the Dutch Electricity Market: 1998—2004. The 
Energy Journal, 26, 155-179.  
Verbong, G., & Geels, F. (2007). The ongoing energy transition: lessons from a 
socio-technical, multi-level analysis of the Dutch electricity system (1960-
2004). Energy Policy, 35, 1025-1037.  
Vernay, A.-L., & Gauthier, C. (2019). Tempête dans le secteur de l’énergie: 
l’émergence de l’économie du partage. Entreprise et Histoire, In press.  
Wise Nederland. (2018). Welke energiebedrijven zijn duurzaam en wie zijn de 
grootste vervuilers? Retrieved from https://wisenederland.nl/groene-
stroom/wie-zijn-de-groenste-en-wie-zijn-de-grootste-vervuilers 

 
 
Yang, C.-J. (2010). Reconsidering solar grid parity. Energy Policy, 38(7), 3270-3273. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S030142151000176X. 
doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2010.03.013 
Zervas, G., Proserpio, D., & Byers, J. W. (2017). The rise of the sharing economy: 
Estimating the impact of Airbnb on the hotel industry. Journal of Marketing 
Research, 54(5), 687-705.  
Zott, C., & Amit, R. (2010). Business Model Design: An Activity System Perspective. 
Long 
Range 
Planning, 
43(2-3), 
216-226. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0024630109000533. 
doi:10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.004 
Zott, C., Amit, R., & Massa, L. (2011). The Business Model: Recent Developments 
and Future Research. Journal of Management, 37(4), 1019-1042. Retrieved 
from 
http://jom.sagepub.com/content/37/4/1019.abstract. 
doi:10.1177/0149206311406265 
 
 

 
 
Tables and Figures 
Table 1. Details on Data Collection 
Source of 
Data 
Type of data 
Use in the analysis 
Archive 
 
 
 
Publications about policy developments 
and the evolution of the Dutch power 
sector (ECN, 2001; van Damme 2005; 
Verbong and Geels, 2007; Huijben and 
Verbong, 2013; Elzenga and Schwencke, 
2014; ACM, 2016; 2017;2018; ) 
Get a global overview of how the 
power system evolved over time 
and how this has been shaped by 
policy interventions.  
Contextualize the findings in line 
with sectorial dynamics.  
Sequencing - Narrative.  
Identify relevant 
firms/organizations to interview.  
 
Interviews 
1st round of interviews 
(Green) electricity provider (1) 
(Green) electricity retailer (3) 
Matchmaker (3) 
Energy cooperative (3) 
Electricity distribution company (2) 
Association (1) 
Energy network operator (1) 
 
2nd round of interviews 
(green) electricity provider (3) 
Energy cooperative (2) 
Matchmaker (1) 
Associations (3) 
Crowdfunding platforms (2) 
Third party renewable energy provider 
(2) 
Interview with expert (3) 
Identify the different roles of the 
business models from the 
perspective of the organizations 
interviewed 
Identify when in the transition the 
business models of each 
organization played a role.  
Identify additional 
firms/organizations to interview, 
especially the complementors 
Enrich the analysis of the different 
roles of the business models from 
the perspective of the 
organizations interviewed.  
Question firms about changes in 
their business model 
Verify that data gathering reached 
saturation. 
 
Verify the validity of the results 
and confirm that data gathering 
reached saturation (that all 
business model roles have been 
identified)  
 
Corporate 
archives 
 
Websites of the twenty-two 
organizations interviewed. This included 
both the main pages presenting the 
firms offer and press releases discussing 
relevant changes in business strategy 
regarding decentralization.  
Websites of five additional relevant 
actors. (idem) 
Triangulate observations in terms 
of the role played and 
temporality.   
 
 
 
Enrich the analysis of the different 
roles of the business models and 
their temporality. 
 
Other 
archives 
Newspaper articles or articles published 
in blogs or professional magazine (7) 
Triangulate observations both in 
terms of the role played and of 
their periodicity.   

 
 
Table 2. Mechanisms how business model innovations change 
the dominant logic  
Undermining  
Undermining prevailing definitions of customers value   
- Not all green electrons are green in the same way 
- Coal electricity is bad electricity  
- Customers do not have to be captive of large utilities  
Undermining social structure in the prevailing value chain  
- Make it easy for customers to switch supplier 
- Raise customer awareness they can gain from switching supplier 
- Improve market transparency 
Undermining prevailing value capture model  
- Organize collective buying of renewable energy technologies or 
electricity 
- Increase the bargaining power of small producers 
- Improve the ROI of renewable energy technologies 
Creating 
 
Creating new definitions of customer values  
- Give a color to the electron (traceability)  
- Create value for previously excluded customers  
- Develop hassle-free renewable energy offers  
Creating new social structures in the value chain 
- Create a market place to connect producers and consumers  
- Make it possible for (very) small producers and citizens to trade 
power 
- Create a market place to connect technology providers and 
customers  
Creating new forms of revenue model 
- Lease solar panels 
- Charge a fee to access the platform 
- Sell electricity at the production cost 
Complementing 
 
Providing key complementary assets necessary to create alternative 
customer values  
- Provide competences needed to better communicate about 
customer values    
- Help create a brand around alternative customer values 
- Help incumbent propose innovative services to their customers 
Providing key complementary assets necessary to deliver 
alternative customer values 
- Provide knowledge about norms and rules in the sector  
- Perform activities which require specific knowledge or expertise  
- Provide licenses needed to deliver value  
Providing key complementary assets necessary for business model 
with alternative logic to capture more value  
- Help small producers get access to end-consumers 
- Allow energy cooperatives to diversify their income 
- Provide additional sales and distribution channels  

 
 
Figure 1. Reinforcing mechanisms for how business model 
innovations induce a change in a dominant industry logic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dominant logic 
Shared definitions of 
value creation, delivery 
and capture
Erode the legitimacy 
and social structures  
Propose 
alternative
Provide 
complementary
Provide 
complementary 
Provide disconfirming 
Provide a template 
Undermini
ng 
Complementi
ng 
Creating 
Trigger a virtuous cycle with BM co-
Increase market 

 
 
Figure 2. Illustrating the emergence of a virtuous cycle around 
the supply of locally produced renewable electricity 
 
 

 
 
APPENDIX 
Table A1. Organizations interviewed, the year they were established and the role 
of the persons interviewed  
Type of organization 
Founded 
in 
Role of interviewee 
Date  
Duration 
Round 1 
Electricity provider 
1999 
Senior innovation manager  
13/11/15 42 min 
(green) electricity 
retailer 
  
  
2001 
Innovation manager 
15/11/2015 55 min 
Idem 
Account manager for energy 
cooperatives 
21/07/2016 60 min 
2005 
CEO 
11/11/2015 50 min 
Energy cooperative  
  
2011 
Managing director 
02/12/2016 36 min 
2014 
CEO 
18/11/2015 61 min 
2001 
Managing director 
03/11/2015 45 min 
Alternative energy 
supplier 
  
  
2013 
Founder 
17/11/2015 38 min 
2014 
Founder 
09/12/2015 35 min 
2016 
Founder 
19/04/2016 60 min 
Association 
1974 
PR in charge of energy issues 
08/06/2016 27 min 
DSO 
  
2009 
CSR manager 
17/02/2016 57 min 
2012 
communication director 
11/12/2015 45 min 
Energy network 
operator  
 2017 
Manager regulatory and 
government affairs 
14/10/2015 67 min 
Round 2 
(Green) electricity 
provider  
1995 
Strategic advisor 
07/02/2017 35 min 
Idem 
Head of smart energy lab 
10/03/2017 55 min 
2001 
Director Nederland retail 
06/04/2017 30 min 
Third party renewable 
energy provider 
2011 
founder 
08/02/2017 25 min 
2010 
CEO 
23/02/2017 42 min 
Crowdfunding 
platform 
2014 
Founder 
07/04/2017 49 min 
2008 
Initiator 
14/12/2017 38 min 
Comparison site 
2004 
Founder 
02/03/2017 61 min 
Association 
  
  
2016 
Director  
11/07/2017 30 min 
2016 
Operational director 
24/03/2017 44 min 
1972 
Project leader energy 
16/05/2017 43 min 
Energy cooperative 
  
2014 
CEO 
18/04/2019 43 min 
2015 
Founder 
30/04/2019 64 min 
Expert 
  
  
  
Independent researcher 
22/02/2017 53 min 
  
Academic researcher 
16 and 
17/05/2017 75 min 
  
Independent researcher 
26/03/2019 91 min 
 
 

 
 
Table A2. Data Supporting Interpretations of undermining, creating and 
complementing mechanisms  
Data supporting the interpretation of the undermining mechanism 
Mechanism 
Representative quotations 
 
Undermining prevailing definitions of customers value   
Not all green 
electrons are 
green in the 
same way 
“Many energy suppliers buy electricity for the cheapest price on the 
electricity spot market and combine this with the cheapest green 
electricity certificate from abroad. The result can officially be named 
green electricity but we call it hustle power: there is no incentive to 
produce more renewable electricity in Netherlands”. (wise Nederland) 
“Traditional energy supplier win a lot of money by producing and selling 
fossil energy. This old-fashioned dirty energy is often greened with green 
certificates from abroad and sold as green energy. This means that, on 
Dutch ground, a lot of electricity is still being produced by coal power 
plant while people think that they consumed green electricity”. 
(Alternative energy supplier) 
Coal electricity is 
bad electricity 
“Our main mission is to speed up the transition, so we will do it in a lot of 
ways, sometimes by protesting against coal power plants” (NGO) 
“Coal power plants are producing the dirtiest form of power that is 
currently used in the Netherlands. Coal power plants in Netherlands are 
responsible for 26% of our yearly CO2 emissions are therefore an 
important contributor to climate change.” (NGO) 
Customers are 
captive of large 
utilities 
“That was also good for us as a comparison site because what they did is 
that they created awareness among the consumers“.(Comparison site) 
“Energy is everywhere, always. So why do we need energy suppliers? 
Forget prevailing norms and come participate to a new movement: a 
community that produces its own electricity and in which you are the 
boss”. (Energy cooperative) 
“Cheap and also what helps is that we have a lot of customers that like us 
because they think that it is anti-establishment”. (energy retailer) 
 
Undermining social structure in the prevailing value chain 
Make it easy for 
customers to 
switch supplier  
“And the value, what I think is important for us is to help people with a 
smooth switch. That nothing goes wrong. We want to make it easy for 
them”. (Energy cooperative) 
“We believe that members should have a choice. So we wanted to give 
them a minimum of two choices and therefore we have two kinds of 
contracts... So we advise them to take the one-year contract but we want 
them to choose, to have some more choices”. (Comparison site) 
Raise customer 
awareness they 
can gain from 
switching 
supplier 
 “they shake up the market, they show us that there are new ways to 
connect production to consumption, Vandebron and Powerpeers are 
examples of that” (NGO) 
“They don’t like us because we are making it very difficult for them. 
Because they have to give very cheap tariffs and high cashbacks to be in 
the top 5 of our comparison site”. (Comparison site)  
Improve market 
transparency 
“We started with the main components of our concept, which is a web 
site with a protected environment where in the neighborhood you can 
upload the offers you get from companies. You can upload it, your 
neighborhood can upload and you compare them, and you say, "Oh, you 
got a good price! Really, who is it?" It's a very important function and it's 
very effective for people”. (DSO) 
“We want to create a transparent market to empower consumers” 
(Alternative energy supplier)  

 
 
“Our mission is to make the market transparent but also the service of 
the suppliers transparent. How do they help their own customers? 
Therefore the review platform. We want people to make the best choice. 
When we started our line was: switch easily, make informed decisions”. 
(Comparison site) 
 
Undermining prevailing value capture model  
Organize 
collective buying 
of renewable 
energy 
technologies or 
electricity 
“The market, the energy market was open then. So energy suppliers 
could compete with their prices but they didn’t, their prices were high, 
energy prices. So we thought we can lobby for better prices but that 
wouldn’t work. So we decided to start a collective buying of energy. It 
was successful because many of our members were interested. But for us 
it was interesting because they offered global prices”. (Association of 
home owners) 
“The collective buying of solar panels, we did that I think seven years ago 
for the first time At that time the market was very volatile, there were a 
lot of small players which were not always very dependable, so as a 
consumer you didn’t really know, where do I go to, what is a fair price. So 
we said we will just find a good supplier which we know is good, with one 
fixed price for a certain set of solar panels.  We will communicate it to the 
consumers and make it clear that this is what you get, we will do all the 
extra hassle, the installation and making sure the quality is all right. So 
really targeted to make the market more stable.” (NGO) 
Increase the 
bargaining 
power of small 
producers 
“I would say it does support a more inclusive economy in which we 
empower consumers and local producers and not the big multinationals”. 
(Alternative energy supplier)  
“The individual farmers with wind turbines had to negotiate with those 
utilities their contracts, their power purchase agreements, the PPAs. The 
farmers in North Holland, the province of North Holland, realized, "Hey, 
we should not do that individual basis, but do that together." (Energy 
cooperative) 
Improve the ROI 
of renewable 
energy 
technologies 
 “When the market started you had a small windmill and you went to 
Essent and said, "I have a small windmill. Will you buy my energy?" And 
Essent, you know, 1 cent or 0.8 cent and then you have to keep your 
money, but you couldn't go anywhere. We offered to pay you 1 1/2 cent 
or 2 cents. We think that's a fair price. That made investments in wind 
energy much more effective”. (Green energy retailer) 
“We increase the return on investments in renewable energy by 10 to 20 
percent”. (Alternative energy supplier) 
Data supporting the interpretation of the creating mechanism 
 
Creating new definitions of customer values 
Give a color to 
the electron 
(traceability)  
“So, we deliver power and gas, but we do that in a transparent way, and 
also that you can choose your own sources of energy. So you can choose 
from dedicated sources where your energy is coming from” (Energy 
provider) 
“If you get a contract from Vandebron, you can select the source of 
renewable energy. Literally. Are you going for the wind power from 
farmer Rens or for the anaerobic digester of farmer Harold? Vandebron 
leaves the choice to you”. (Alternative energy supplier) 
“It’s really about people, it’s about you and me, it’s our connection, we 
now have a connection and so we know each other and perhaps we also 
would like to exchange our electricity, so you are inviting me or perhaps 
you would like to join me. So it’s really about the interpersonal 
connection”. (Alternative energy supplier) 

 
 
“It is warm crowdfunding that I do. You know the farmer and you get 
afterwards his products”. (Expert) 
Create value for 
previously 
excluded 
customers  
“Many people want to have solar and be part of the energy transition but 
they don’t have a rooftop for it. If you put solar on a rooftop nearby you 
can also apply for some sort of net metering policy. It’s called postcode 
roos. You have the school of your kids nearby, with a group of parents 
you start a cooperation, and with this cooperation you put solar panels 
on the rooftop of the school and then [our company] helps to 
administrate the benefits of this solar production by basically subtracting 
it from the consumption on your own energy bill as a household”. (Energy 
provider) 
“The majority of people cannot benefit from their own solar panels 
because they are renting a home or living in the city center. With [our 
company] you can also get the advantages of let’s say solar power from 
bigger rooftops on industry parks. There are already thousands solar 
panels and I can say: those six are mine and I only get what is being 
produced by six solar panels for my consumption” (Alternative energy 
supplier) 
Develop hassle-
free renewable 
energy offers  
“Initially, we thought: we need to help people with the investment, but it 
has to be hassle free for people. So all the perceived risk needs to be with 
us as a company instead of with the client. At [our company], we cover 
the maintenance, the insurance, everything”. (Third party renewable 
energy provider) 
“Without complications: after registering, Windcentrale takes care of 
everything”. (Third party renewable energy provider) 
“Our offer includes a Sun & Security guarantee. Imagine that after four 
years of use your PV panels are hit by thunder, then the system is 
replaced for free”. (Third party renewable energy provider) 
 
Creating new social structures in the value chain 
Create a market 
place to connect 
producers and 
consumers 
“We are really an online platform, online marketplace for people that are 
interested in selling their home-produced electricity or retrieving specific 
electricity from specific sources of their choice “production”. (Alternative 
energy supplier) 
“We are a market place so we have demand and supply so we have two 
customers”. (Alternative energy supplier) 
“We are a marketplace for local energy”. (Alternative energy supplier) 
Make it possible 
for (very) small 
producers and 
citizens to trade 
power 
“We sell green electricity from individual farmers” (Energy cooperative) 
“We launched the solar collective. In which not only farmers, well actually 
no farmers, but only consumers with a small meter”. (Alternative energy 
supplier) 
“We are doing now a software platform that’s trying to coordinate what 
for you as a consumer is the best balance between the electricity you can 
buy from the grid, the electricity on your own, the electricity from your 
neighbor and also to help you with all the transactions”. (Alternative 
energy supplier) 
Create a market 
place to connect 
technology 
providers and 
customers 
“We are some kind of intermediary between consumers and installing 
companies”. (Dso) 
“we have in this model is we also offer third-parties like installation 
companies or companies that are offering e-management, displace or 
solar panels, we offer them also the marketplace so they can sell and 
offer their products and services too”. (Alternative energy supplier) 
 
Creating new forms of revenue model 
Lease solar 
panels 
“We offer solar power installation to individuals ‘as a service’. Without 
investment, individual home-owners can user solar panel and directly 

 
 
benefit from net savings. Today is the launch of our service ‘leasing solar 
panel to everyone’”. (Third party renewable energy provider) 
“basically, we started to lease solar panel to private households in the 
Netherlands, a bit like solar city does in the US”. (Third party renewable 
energy provider) 
Charge a fee to 
access the 
platform 
“We have a business model that is based only the latter, so only on 
posterity subscription model. It’s not in our interest to sell more volume 
or to sell at a higher price and by that we align our interest with that of 
the customer”. (Alternative energy supplier) 
Sell electricity at 
the production 
cost 
“We established the firm that's based on the idea that in the end, all our 
customers have to be energy neutral, so they use as much energy as they 
consume and for that we said okay, if that's your mission, that's our 
mission and we shouldn't earn any money on the consumption of energy” 
(Energy cooperative) 
“We sell our energy at a cost price model.” (Energy cooperative) 
Data supporting the interpretation of the complementing mechanism 
 
Providing key complementary assets necessary to create alternative 
customer values 
Provide 
competences 
needed to better 
communicate 
about customer 
values    
“A total of six stories are available: one general basic story and five more 
focused stories” (NGO) 
“I thought with the communication material you have lying around here 
and the way you are telling this story you won’t get people involved. One 
of my task was to do the marketing and to get people willing to 
participate” (Energy cooperative)  
Help create a 
brand around 
alternative 
customer values 
“We help them build a brand which people trust” (Energy cooperative) 
Help incumbent 
propose 
innovative 
services to their 
customers 
“I think they decided to join because they talk to their customers and 
their customers said: could you please help me with producing my own 
energy? And instead of developing that product line themselves, they 
thought it was easy to partner with a company like us because we already 
had an existing product and offer that we could bring to the market 
straight away”. (Third party renewable energy provider) 
“They can’t do it. So that's what Greenchoice wants. They want to give 
our product to those energy corporations. Hence the white label”. 
(Alternative energy supplier) 
 
Providing key complementary assets necessary to induce change in 
existing value chains    
Provide 
knowledge about 
norms and rules 
in the sector  
“We help them throughout the last year of the realization with 
knowledge about price you can get per kwh, how the electricity market 
works, how they can work with the DSO”. (Green energy retailer) 
“We choose for advice, bring people together, give them information, to 
stimulate them to do something with it” (DSO) 
Perform 
activities which 
require specific 
knowledge or 
expertise  
“Provide back-office energy delivery and administration services for local, 
sustainable energy initiatives”. (Energy cooperative) 
“Thanks to the crowfunding platform we have the means to do all the 
administration for energy cooperatives” (Crowdfunding platform) 
“We do environmental impact assessments, permitting issues, all that 
kind of stuff, regarding large infrastructure and energy projects” (Energy 
cooperative) 
“We both collect the data from the turbines, some we get from the DSO 
some from [our company] itself. We combine that in a data model to see 

 
 
how much is produced per year and divide that among customers.” 
(Green energy retailer) 
Provide licenses 
needed to 
deliver value  
“We are too small to do it all by ourselves so we are using the trade floor 
of [a big incumbent ]. You need a license to be program responsible and 
that is what we are buying from [a big incumbent” (Energy cooperative) 
 “We act as resaler for the cooperative. They do not have the license to 
deliver electricity to customers. They look for company that can do that 
for their members” (Green energy retailer) 
 
Providing key complementary assets necessary for business model with 
alternative logic to capture more value 
Help small 
producers get 
access to end-
consumers 
“On the production side we solve the problem of getting access to the 
consumer. Because before we launched the independent renewable 
energy producers that are on our platform, they didn’t have access to the 
consumer. By that they had to well sell it to traditional energy companies 
that a made a margin on the energy that they sold or that they sell”. 
(Alternative energy supplier) 
Allow energy 
cooperative to 
diversify their 
income  
For each customer we pay the cooperative a fee. So we created a special 
sale flow”. (Green energy retailer) 
 
Provide 
additional sales 
and distribution 
channels 
“We sell solar panels with our service partners”. (Energy supplier) 
“We are selling panels as turnkey solutions”. (Energy supplier) 
“We want to help people generate their own electric. We tried to do it 
with our PV proposition”. (Energy supplier) 
“Energy suppliers were interested to join because they could get many 
customers that way. But for example Essent, Nuon and Eneco, they don’t 
join.” (Association of home owners) 
 

 
 
Transformative Business Models for 
Dutch AgriFood Transition Pathways 
 
Pieter Jelle Beers1,2, Marjo Baeten1 
1HAS University of Applied Sciences; 2 Dutch Research Institute for 
Transitions, Erasmus University Rotterdam 
*p.beers@has.nl 
 
Abstract  
New Dutch agrifood business models are emerging in response to economic, social 
and ecological pressures: new players arrive, new logistical pathways come to the 
fore and innovative consumer and farmer relationships – food co-operatives – are 
forged. How do new business models relate to reconfiguring the Dutch agrifood 
system? Our research combines future exploration (backcasting) and analysis of 
new business models. We developed three agrifood transition scenarios with 
various groups of stakeholders. For each scenario, we then analysed a specific, 
representative business model to explore the different roles of business models in 
agrifood transition. 
Business models in the “Added value in and with the countryside” already exist 
and occupy a niche in the market. However, a breakthrough of these business 
models require large-scale institutional and behavioural change. Business models 
in the “New products, specific markets” exist but are rare. They usually concern 
high-value specialist products that could result in widespread market change, but 
might require little institutional change. The “Sustainable production methods” 
most resembles the current system. Some associated business models become 
successful, but they have difficulty distinguishing themselves from conventional 
produce, which raises questions about whether business models are able to drive 
a transition in this direction. Thus, our results lend credence to the hypothesis that 
different transition pathways offer specific potential for and requirements of new 
business models. 

 
 
Keywords 
Agrifood transition, transformative business models, transition pathways 
Introduction 
The Dutch agrifood regime is grinding to a halt. International economic pressures 
force Dutch farmers to further scale up and intensify their businesses, while food 
scandals and calamities as well as many and varied negative environmental 
impacts have led to an all-time low societal acceptance of the agrifood regime as 
well as a host of legislative measures to stifle further growth. Such a situation, in 
which regime pressures increasingly undermine the regime, represents a strong 
call for transition of the Dutch agrifood system. 
At the same time, new business models emerge: new players arrive, new logistical 
pathways come to the fore and innovative consumer and farmer relationships – 
food co-operatives – are forged. In a sense, the transition is already under way (cf. 
Hermans et al., 2010), with new business models forming an important backbone. 
However, the way forward is still a matter of great uncertainty and controversy: 
How do new business models relate to reconfiguring the Dutch agrifood system? 
We explore the hypothesis that different transition pathways put specific 
demands on the role of new business models. We studied various new business 
models in the Dutch agrifood system and their relations to three different 
transition pathways. Our research combines future exploration (backcasting) and 
analysis of new business models.  
In this research, we approach this question from two angles. First, we introduce a 
transition-oriented business model concept, in order to effectively link new 
business models to transition. Then we shortly touch upon the transition pathway 
typology introduced by Geels et al. (2016) and describe three different transition 
pathways for the Dutch agrifood system. We report on 2 business models in each 
of these transition pathways. The paper ends with a discussion of the role of 
business models for different types of transition pathways. 
Transformative agrifood business models 
When do new business models lead to transition? Most business models can be 
seen as business-as-usual, as part of current regimes. For Dutch agriculture and 

 
 
horticulture, the dominant model consists of cost-price efficiency-driven 
businesses that produce good quality commodities for international markets. 
Social and environmental effects are seen as prerequisites rather than part of the 
value of the product. In recent years, however, more and more scholarly attention 
is directed towards the development of new business models (Jonker, 2014), 
sustainable business models (Schaltegger, Hansen, & Lüdeke-Freund, 2016), 
sufficiency-driven business models (Bocken & Short, 2016), et cetera – in short: 
business models that might contribute to transition rather than regime 
optimalisation. What are the conceptual ramifications of this development? 
The term “business model” has at least three different meanings. As an ontology, 
a business model is a list of aspects and relations that together constitute a 
business (Osterwalder, 2004; Osterwalder & Pigneur, 2013; cf. Upward & Jones, 
2016). The most famous example of this is the business model ontology by 
Osterwalder, which forms the basis of the business model canvas. In the form of a 
practical operationalisation, it describes how a (group of) actors together produce 
products and services that, when transferred to a consumer, provide the 
consumer with various values, and the producers with a financial return (Boons & 
Lüdeke-Freund, 2013). It is a description of how a company or companies are able 
to make money by supplying products and services. Finally, as an instrument, a 
business model is a tool that can be applied to existing companies, to analyse 
companies or design new business models.  
The Osterwalder canvas model (Osterwalder & Peigneur, 2013) is probably the 
most popular way to describe business models in business theory literature. At its 
core, there are nine coherent parts: 1) the value proposition, the bundle of 
products and services expressed in a price. This is offered through 2) relations and 
3) channels to one or more 4) customers (or market segments). And this then leads 
to 5) income. There is also a business process that consists of a series of 6) core 
activities, using a few 7) resources, and in cooperation with a few 8) key parties. 
And all this brings with it 9) costs. There may be many more precise elaborations 
or variations on this model, but it can be justly claimed that, with these nine parts, 
it is definitely possible to explain a business model (Eppler & Hoffmann, 2012; 
Upward & Jones, 2016). 
At the same time, the amount of criticism of the implementation of the business 
models in practice is increasing. We begin with three conceptual criticisms. Firstly, 
many scholars point out that value in terms of financial profit is seen as the most 
important success criterion (Bocken, Rana, & Short, 2015; Miller, Park, Evans, 

 
 
Bamford, & Bocken, 2016; Upward & Jones, 2016). This view of value is criticised 
because it does not include other considerations such as environmental and 
societal value (People-Planet-Profit, in other words, the triple bottom-line; cf. 
Ehrenfeld, 1997). Moreover, it only sees value as being something positive, 
whereas many businesses produce negative values (externalities), produce value 
for something for which they do not get paid, and value that cannot yet be 
monetised, but will be in the future (Bocken et al., 2015). 
Secondly, various authors state that only a limited number of parties involved are 
taken into consideration, mainly the company, production partners/supply chain 
partners and the consumer. From a sustainability perspective, the environment, 
society and nature should also be included (Bocken et al., 2015; Upward & Jones, 
2016).  
Thirdly, business theory literature about business models gives little or no 
attention to the social and physical environment of the business model. The 
context is not given and, therefore, is as it were implicitly treated as being 
constant, stagnant (cf. Upward & Jones, 2016). However, from a transition point 
of view, the context is continuously moving: changing laws and regulations; 
changing public opinion; emerging new practices and movements, such as local-
for-local, foodies.  And a context in movement is constantly offering new 
opportunities and obstacles. 
A second set of criticisms concerns the business model canvas as a tool to design 
new business models. Research about the use of Osterwalder’s business model 
canvas points out that the results with the canvas model are seen by users as being 
less creative than simply using an empty PowerPoint slide (Eppler & Hoffmann, 
2012). Various researchers (Eppler & Hoffmann, 2012; Miller et al., 2016, June) 
question a number of categories in the business model canvas, and suggest that 
the canvas is already so complicated to work with that this is at the expense of the 
result (cf. cognitive overloading, Beers, Boshuizen, Kirschner, Gijselaers, & 
Westendorp, 2008; cf. overscripting, Dillenbourg, 2002). Upward and Jones (2016) 
finally concluded that the business-as-usual nature of the business model canvas, 
together with its popularity, in fact even pose a risk to sustainability. 
These collective criticisms suggest that, in the context of transitions, the business 
model canvas has several shortcomings. Furthermore, extending the business 
model to alleviate these shortcomings would probably result in severe limitations 
to its practical usability, given the current cognitive demands of using the model 

 
 
in practice. Drawing upon these criticisms, we identify some goals for a transition-
oriented business model concept. Firstly, as a transition implies a structural 
change, this means that the context for the business models involved will change 
in an important and possibly influential way. A business model concept should 
include changing discourses (e.g. increasing criticism regarding intensive livestock 
farming), institutional change (e.g. the Paris Agreement), new practices (e.g., in 
the case of agriculture, home delivery), and changing relationships with relevant 
stakeholders are changing (e.g. greenhouse cultivators talking to Greenpeace 
about climate issues). In other words, the business model should be reflexive (cf. 
Beck, Bonss, & Lau, 2003; Hendriks & Grin, 2007; Beers & Van Mierlo, 2017). 
Regarding value, it is necessary to have a broader orientation with respect to 
value, not only the value that can be described using monetary terms today, but 
also how that value will change in the future, in terms of value for people and 
plant, and both positive and negative value. Furthermore, transitions concern 
functional and/or geographical systems, where ecological and social 
developments are an inherent aspect. In terms of value, this means that the value 
is not only economic and positive, but it may also be negative, and social or 
ecological. 
As a first step towards a transformative business model, we build on a simplified 
business model canvas and include a reflexive orientation (see Figure 1). The core 
of the business model is captured by four aspects: 
• Value: What are the different types of value (people, planet, profit) 
supplied by the business model, and to whom? 
• Products / services: In which products/services is this value evident 
(including the production process)? 
• Production and chain: How can I create the product/service and deliver it 
to the client/consumer (including key parties/partners)? 
• Valuation: What do I get back for the added value I provide, and how? 
We add a reflexive orientation by drawing on Beers and Van Mierlo’s 
operationalisation of reflexivity (2017): 
• Discourses: The changing way of thinking in society, for example when it 
comes to animal welfare, climate change, health care, mobility, et cetera, 
that can represent opportunities and threats for a business model. 

 
 
• Relations: The changing possible relationships with societal actors that can 
offer opportunities and threats in the form of new clients, new 
stakeholders and new co-producers. 
• Practices: Upcoming and disappearing practices that could create 
possibilities and limitations for new business models, such as with respect 
to logistics (home delivery) the ‘maker’ movement (the citizen creates 
more and more themselves), information and communication technology 
(production and supply chains are becoming more transparent) and energy 
supply (more and more citizens and farmers are producing and selling their 
own energy). 
• Institutions: Changes in laws and regulations that lead to changing access 
to the market. For example, the Dutch supermarkets that no longer sell 
battery eggs. 
Figure 1: Transformative business model concept 
Transition pathways 
Geels et al. (2016) distinguish between four different types of transition pathways, 
which differ in the roles of institutions, actors and technologies. In the substitution 
pathway, transition comes about through new entrants that substitute incumbent 
firms with new technologies. This process is accommodated by limited 
institutional change, with some additional support for emerging niches. In the 
transformation pathway, the transition is mainly carried by incumbent actors, with 
limited (improving dominant technologies) to radical technological (technological 

 
 
substitution) and institutional change. In the reconfiguration pathway, transition 
is carried by new alliances between new entrants and incumbents, and associated 
new combinations of technologies. Institutional change may be limited but can 
include legislation about operations. The de-alignment and re-alignment pathway 
is the most disruptive one, occurring when a regime collapses while alternatives 
have developed only to a limited extent. In the period that follows, a new regime 
forms around new actors and technologies, with associated disruption of 
institutions.  
This pathway typology was illustrated by examples from historical research. In our 
research, we focus on transition in the making. For the Dutch agrifood system, it 
is, as of yet, not clear what direction and depth future development will have, 
despite the fact that the agrifood system has given rise to a host of innovative 
agrifood practices. So, instead of doing an historical analysis, we produced three 
scenarios for Dutch agrifood transition, based on back-casting exercises in 
meetings with a broad range of actors from business, higher education, NGOs and 
lobbying organisations, and governments (cf. Loorbach & Rotmans, 20016; 
Rotmans & Loorbach, 2009). 
Reconfiguration: Added value in and with the countryside 
The first scenario, “Added value in and with the countryside” represents a 
reconfiguration pathway. In this scenario, consumers are increasingly critical 
about food origins and production. This provides opportunities for entrepreneurs 
– current farmers and new entrants in logistics and sales – to create added value 
by sharing their story about their societally responsive production methods and 
locations. This scenario features relatively small and extensive production of an 
exclusive product for a demanding consumer. For example, local production (local-
for-local), short supply chains, sales using alternative channels such as the internet 
or pickup points nearby, and more extensive production methods with extra 
attention to soil, biodiversity and animal welfare. The consumer knows more 
about the production method, the product and origins, and that their purchase 
contributes to the local economy. Farmers often combine agricultural production 
with healthcare or recreation. 
Associated new businesses focus on ways of farming and cultivating that 
strengthen the connection between consumer, food and countryside: Where does 
my food come from? How is it produced? For example, meat products that 
contribute to maintaining the diversity of species of farm animals; local products 
that are not only food, but also culture; and production methods that pay extra 

 
 
attention to the animal and nature. The extra added value in these types of 
business models, compared to the conventional set-up, is provided in various 
ways: transparency about the origin and production methods; connecting the 
region with the countryside; and the added value for nature and the countryside, 
to name but a few. And, in some cases, a section of the city where urban 
agriculture is able to provide a kind of ‘countryside’ function. It is often about small 
product flows.  
Substitution: New products, specific markets 
The second scenario, “New products, specific markets,” concerns new 
technological opportunities for high-value products. It can be seen as a 
substitution pathway, especially from a market perspective. Technological 
developments enable new business to move away from the Dutch dominant 
model of cost leadership with commodities towards producing high-tech, high-
value specialties for specific markets, such as salt-tolerant vegetables, meat 
substitutes and vegetables with exceptional nutritional content. Developments 
such as climate change, scarcity of raw materials and increasing population levels 
are generating a demand for products that can change in line with these 
developments. Technological developments are making new products or cross-
overs possible. And this is making it possible to serve specific markets with 
targeted added value propositions, instead of creating a traditional product for 
the entire society. 
In the transition path of new products and specific markets, it is often about new 
crops and/or technological adaptations to existing products. For products, 
examples include saline crops and insects, creating value from waste flows and the 
extracting components, both for food and for other industries (chemical and 
medical). And also, the production of high-grade proteins from plant-based 
sources. The characteristics these business models have in common are that they 
all use relatively new production technology that is not yet commonplace in the 
sector today, and that each business model is based on new products for specific 
markets.  
Transformation: Sustainable production methods 
The third scenario, “Sustainable production methods,” combines technological 
innovations and societal values by drastically reducing odour pollution, preventing 
mineral emissions altogether, cutting back antibiotics use and using only 
renewable sources of energy, while improving animal welfare (transformation 
pathway). Associated new business models are traditional in the sense that they 

 
 
are mainly based on existing products. The main difference is that, thanks to 
technological innovations, they represent a major step towards sustainability. 
The latest developments in both intensive and non-intensive livestock farming are 
making it possible to drastically reduce odour pollution and to almost prevent 
mineral emissions altogether. Also, the use of antibiotics has been drastically cut 
back and the attention paid to animal welfare has in the meantime increased 
(compared to traditional common practice). And more and more farmers are 
generating their own electricity and/or heat. 
We are seeing similar developments in greenhouse horticulture. The use of 
herbicides, pesticides and insecticides has been dramatically reduced (especially 
in the cultivation of fruit and vegetables). This is partially as a result of the 
successes arising from organic agriculture, as well as recent developments in 
cultivation techniques (Next Generation Growing) and new greenhouse concepts 
(daylight greenhouse, ID greenhouse). These developments are making it easier to 
grow products without CO2 emissions from fossil fuels (for example by using 
geothermal heat, heat pumps, ground water and residual heat). 
Methods 
We studied three novel agrifood business cases, food forests, green urban 
solutions, and climate-neutral greenhouse production, as business exemplars for 
each of the future scenarios. For each business case, we conducted a series of 
interviews with entrepreneurs and associated stakeholders in the business 
models. Interview data were either fully transcribed (in the Food forest case) or 
summarised and offered for correction to the interviewee (in the other cases). We 
then conducted a qualitative analysis using the eight categories of the 
transformative business model as analytical categories. For each category, we 
identified from the data every structurally different way in which it conceptually 
applied. 
 
 

 
 
Results 
We analysed three business models in detail, one for each scenario (see Table 1). 
Scenario 
Business model 
Added value in and with the 
countryside 
Food Forests 
New products, specific markets 
Green Urban Solutions 
Sustainable production methods 
Climate-neutral greenhouse 
production 
Table 1: Scenarios and business models 
Added value in and with the countryside: Food forests 
Permaculture is an agricultural method that aims to produce agriculture products 
in a system that closely mimics natural ecosystems. The resulting agricultural 
production systems include up to seven layers of very diverse, mostly perennial 
production. Cited benefits compared to conventional agriculture include high 
system resilience, low to non-existent requirements for pesticides, and a very long 
production season. One common term for / form of permaculture is the food 
forest. In our study, we encountered to main types of food forests business 
models: 
• A business model that combines production values and social values (e.g., 
care farming, social entrepreneurship, education, recreation, ...). Incomes 
is generated more or less evenly from both production and social activities, 
with additional support from subsidies. 
• A production-oriented business model, which predominantly generates 
income from selling produce. This business model can still be combined 
with social services, but these only constitute a minor source of income. 
Food forest produce has several dominant values, concerning product quality 
(e.g., being residue-free, transparency about production means, product 
uniqueness), environmental values such as carbon sequestration, biodiversity, soil 

 
 
structure / water retention, and social value produced through education 
activities, recreation activities, and consumer involvement.  
Food forest products and services are many and varied, according to the food 
forest farmer’s tastes and preferences. All food forests included in our research 
produced various fruits and vegetables, up to 400 varieties per food forest. Some 
food forests also include services such as home delivery, pick-up at the food forest, 
and preparing meals. 
In terms of production systems, the food forests we studied varied a lot. Starting 
a new food forest takes an initial investment for land and plants, which will take a 
year up to decades before they start giving a yield. Input costs diminish over time 
and after about ten years, as the food forest increases its production and matures, 
it becomes self-sufficient. The production systems share various functions, that 
each require specific vegetation, such as nitrogen fixation, pest control, unique 
products (taste, rarity) and cash crop. Customers include restaurants and specialty 
stores as well as individual consumers. 
Revenue streams differed a lot between food forests. Interestingly, our 
interviewees were largely unable to specify production-associated income 
estimates. Other revenue streams included subsidies for ecosystem services and 
revenue from social activities (such as education and recreation). 
Our interviewees see food forests as fitting with an increasing societal awareness 
of the relations between food and sustainability, among specific consumers 
looking for “responsible produce”. This translates into consumer loyalty towards 
permaculture principles and trust in the food forest farmers. Another emerging 
discourse concerns the circular economy. While vague, the interviewees see food 
forests as a very circular example of food production. 
When looking for connections with consumers, the rise of online sales in many 
different sectors is a promising practice for permaculture businesses, allowing 
channels of sales to specific consumer groups that are hard to reach otherwise. 
Other new relations include governments, who, currently in The Netherlands, are 
trying to support food forests, and conventional farmers, who may be interested 
in experimenting with a couple of hectares for food forests. 
In terms of institutions, some interviewees detect a rising government interest in 
agro-ecological initiatives and shifting responsibilities for land stewardship more 

 
 
towards the entrepreneurs. That might result in legislation that would be more 
favourable to food forest production than to conventional production. 
Relating the food forest business model to the scenario, several characteristics 
stand out: relatively small and extensive production of exclusive, localised produce 
for demanding consumers, combined with social / educational functions and some 
subsidies. In contrast to conventional agriculture, uniqueness, diversity, multi-
functionality and transparency appear to be key selling points. Furthermore, these 
core values are currently interesting for a small group of highly aware consumers. 
For a transition to take place, this would either require a widespread increase in 
consumer awareness (unlikely) or some kind of market protection, since food 
imports do not need to conform to the same high standards as food forest produce 
and will likely be cheaper, and therefore more attractive for the average 
consumer.  
A related challenge, for the scenario, resides in the reconfiguration of production 
systems themselves. The assumption would be that current conventional 
producers, together with new entrants, would switch to more extensive, local-for-
local production systems, of which the food forest is one example. However, given 
the current small market perspective, no basis exists for a scaling out of such 
production systems. Further institutional arrangements could provide stronger 
market incentives. One of these might reside in the formation of ‘food co-
operatives’ of citizens and farmers to ensure adherence to certain production 
methods and adequate supply and remuneration. Furthermore, this pathway 
implies a drastic change in diets, since a Dutch localised production would mean 
eating seasonal produce instead of luxury goods from all over the world, all year 
long. Finally, logistical networks need to be more fine grained and points of sale 
more diversified. In sum, it would appear that the reconfiguration scenario in our 
study may be able to use existing business models that are already successful in 
niche markets, such as food forests. However, for these business models to results 
in transition, it would require logistical reconfiguration too, new diets, new 
institutional arrangements between producers and consumers and some kind of 
market protection for more “agro-ecological” production systems. 
New products, specific markets: Green urban solutions 
We conducted an exploratory study of various entrepreneurs and associated 
stakeholders in the field traditionally associated with tree nursery and gardening 

 
 
– basically the production of plants for decorative uses in the city. Recently, 
however, we see the emergence of more functional, specific, and high-value uses 
of “green in the city”, which we have named green urban solutions: 
• Plants for urban farming / urban agriculture 
• Green roofs and green façades 
• Green interiors / living walls 
In all these cases, there is a move from generic products with decorative uses to 
specific products with specific uses. 
Green urban solutions, depending on their specific form, can serve a whole range 
of values, including purely environmental, purely production, and economic values 
(see Table 2 for an overview). For example, urban farming is associated with 
production value, but is also suggested to be valuable for mental health and 
recovery from illness. Furthermore, participating in the maintenance of urban 
gardens also has social advantages, is said to contribute to social cohesion within 
neighbourhoods. 
Type 
Values 
Plants for urban farming / urban 
agriculture 
Nutrition, mental health, social 
cohesion, biodiversity, water 
retention / flood prevention, 
knowledge about food / education, 
liveability 
Green roofs and green façades 
Water retention, heat reduction / 
mitigation of heat stress, decoration, 
liveability, insulation, roof durability 
Green interiors / living walls 
Liveability, worker productivity, 
consumer behaviour 
Table 2: Types of green urban solutions and their values 
The products and services offered go beyond the plants themselves, but now 
include societal functions and the services needed to keep providing those 
functions, such as gardening and design. From the plant nursery perspective, this 

 
 
is not a big role change, but the partners involved in producing green urban 
solutions are more varied now. When it comes to urban agriculture, for example, 
production is often carried out by volunteer-participants. When it comes to green 
roofs and façades, green interiors and living walls, architects play an important 
role now. Table 3 shows a list of functions and associated production partners of 
green urban solutions. 
Functions 
Partners 
Care: health care, physical rehabilitation 
Primary and ambulatory health 
care institutions, hospitals 
Social cohesion: participation of  
disadvantaged groups 
Municipalities 
Recreation: food and drinks 
Bars, restaurants, food services 
Education 
Schools 
Shopping 
Liveability, worker productivity, 
consumer behaviour 
Table 3: Functions of green urban solutions and associated partners 
In terms of generating revenue, this functional breadth poses problems. The 
initiatives that we studied generated income from government actors (including 
some subsidies) and from private partners (project developers). The presence of 
green urban solutions then, in turn has added value for “users” such as care 
providers and restaurants. However, they do not pay directly for the presence of 
green urban solutions, they only indirectly factor in, as an advantage to a specific 
location. A challenge resides in generating income from end users. 
Several emerging discourses align pretty well with aspects of green urban 
solutions. Regarding food, more and more people seem to appreciate full 
disclosure about where their food is from and how it is produced. Urban farming 
is an excellent example of how such disclosure can be provided. Similarly, the 

 
 
emerging societal discourse about climate change was mentioned as important 
for functions such as heat stress reduction and water retention. 
Promising relation might be possible with health insurance companies and 
municipalities. These are both powerful actors that might benefit from green 
urban solutions on a more aggregate level. 
In terms of institutions, it would be especially beneficial if methods were to 
develop that enable pricing the value of green urban solutions. Some such 
experiments were mentioned by the interviewees, but, given the difficulty of 
generating revenue from end users, more such methods could be promising for 
further upscaling of green urban solutions. 
Finally, the development of green urban solutions seems to coincide with the 
emergence of bottom-up initiatives and societal participation, which might 
provide opportunities for their further development. 
Relating to our scenario, the first aspect of the green urban solutions that stands 
out is that it is not an agrifood example, but only agriculture. However, for the 
purposes of our analysis, perhaps it is more important that the associated 
products and services are fundamentally different from the traditional 
arboriculture products that they substitute: the green urban solutions offer more 
value and are more knowledge intensive. This suggests that they belong to a 
different market – the system changes from a market based on commodities and 
cost-price leadership to a market based on quality high-end products and high 
margins. It may be the case that these changes will cater to different consumers 
too.  New markets need to emerge that connect new consumers with these 
products. Interestingly, all these changes occur mainly on the production side. In 
other senses, they do not require so much system reconfiguration, apart from 
logistics focused on specialties instead of commodities. 
Sustainable production methods: Climate-neutral greenhouse 
production 
The Dutch greenhouse sector is responsible for about ten percent of the Dutch 
yearly natural gas consumption, mainly to heat the greenhouses. Many 
entrepreneurs are looking to reduce their energy consumption and so increase 

 
 
their cost-efficiency. The more radical option, however, is to move away from gas 
completely, and exchange it for geothermal heat combined with specific 
greenhouse innovations and new production methods that require less heat. 
Hence the contours of a new business model: climate-neutral greenhouse 
production. 
The main value proposition of climate-neutral greenhouse consumption, 
compared to conventional agriculture, resides in its relative advantage with regard 
to CO2 emissions. Other business values are inherent in the products, such as taste 
and size, and do not differ from conventional produce. In other words, the climate-
neutral greenhouse does not provide specific products or services. In that sense 
this business model is comparable to organic production, which requires 
certification of a production method in order to be distinguishable from 
conventional produce. 
Changing to a climate-neutral business requires substantial investments in energy 
provision, such as installing geothermal heat and/or the use of heat pumps and 
heat exchangers in combination with seasonal storage in aquifers. Furthermore, 
some interviewees state that they use specific, innovative greenhouse designs. 
However, most interviewees still saw these investments as investing in energy 
efficiency, not in terms of a new business model. Some do you use a label (“Grown 
with geothermal heat). Sales organisations are enthusiastic, but this label rarely 
reaches the end consumer, suggesting that traders only focus on security of 
supply, product quality and safety. In that sense, the question remains whether 
one may speak of a business model if the end product cannot be bought as such 
by the consumer. It also means that climate-neutral greenhouse production has 
no specific valuation method. 
For our interviewees, the main value proposition of climate-neutral greenhouse 
production is well-aligned with the emerging societal discourse about climate 
change and energy transition. Indeed, one mentioned that climate-neutral 
production is not an end, but a means to reconnect to society. Climate-neutral 
production is also seen as related to corporate social responsibility. 
Some of our interviewees have taken steps to connect with new, unusual actors 
such as Greenpeace, to strengthen their position. Other actors, however, appear 
rather problematic. Concerning the role of the government, interviewees note 
that it is easier for conventional businesses to acquire building permits, because 
policy offers are better acquainted with the conventional. Interviewees hope that 

 
 
banks and lobbying organisations will support climate-neutral greenhouse 
production, but this was not yet the case at the time we performed our interviews 
(2016). 
In terms of institutions, interviewees have the impression that Dutch rules and 
regulations favour conventional greenhouse growers. The energy taxation system 
is ‘defensive’, that is, tax costs level off with higher consumption, which makes it 
harder to derive a competitive advantage from investments in one’s energy 
system. Furthermore, no mechanisms currently exist that would result in a higher 
price for produce with a big climate impact, meaning that the climate neutral 
producer does not have a market advantage in that regard either. 
New practices include the sourcing of sustainable CO2 as fertiliser for the plants. 
Currently, many Dutch growers take CO2 from their combined heat-and-power 
installations. Climate neutral growers do not have this source available and need 
to look elsewhere for CO2. 
The business model of climate-neutral greenhouse production fits very well with 
the transformation scenario. It concerns changes among the incumbents to take 
into account some sustainability aspects, but does not require new entrants. The 
products stand out, not because they differ from the conventional, but because 
they are the same. From a business model perspective, this is especially 
problematic, because it makes it hard to stand out in the market, while the new 
modes of production do require investments in production infrastructure. Clearly, 
such a transition requires legislation that at some points come to enforce the 
necessary changes. Up until that point, opportunities may exist for new business 
models based in improved production methods. However, the example that we 
studied actually shows how hard it is to base a new business model only on added 
value that is produced during production, and not apparent in the product itself. 
In sum – our reconfiguration scenario leads to radically different environmental 
business value. However, despite some adoption of these technologies, few 
existing agribusiness have reoriented their underlying business model. For the 
agrifood system, this actually means very little reconfiguration in terms of food 
culture and practice. It does require legislation and finances that forces 
agribusiness to change, but diets and logistical systems can remain largely the 
same. 
 
 

 
 
Discussion 
In this paper, we explored three future scenarios that each exemplified a specific 
type of transition pathway. Next, for each scenario we studied a business model 
that might act as a carrier for transition. In this section, we gather hypotheses 
about the role of new business models in different transition pathways, based on 
our analyses. 
First – the scenarios clearly differ in the kind of transition pathway that they 
represent as well as the role of new business models. The first, reconfiguration 
scenario – added value in and with the countryside – appears most far reaching in 
terms of systemic reconfiguration, requiring changed logistics, food chains, modes 
of production, diets, and institutional change. However, associated businesses are 
already successful for a specific consumer group. Innovative entrepreneurs have 
already shown that they are able to earn a living in their specific niches. The 
challenge resides in scaling up, since that would require market access to 
conventional consumers that not share the same level of awareness and 
preferences as the current consumers. For them, the products should be at least 
as good as conventional products, and cheaper as well. So, while the business 
models exist, the challenges for transition are far reaching.  
The substitution scenario clearly requires new markets. Again, producers have 
already shown that they are able to successfully produce for these markets. 
However, the example of green urban solutions also shows that those markets still 
need to develop. Who benefits most from new products? And who is the end 
consumer that pays for them?  
The transformation scenario seems the most straightforward in terms of business 
models. Although are example has not been successful yet from a marketing point 
of view, the transformative businesses in this case can use the same logistical 
channels as the conventional producers, since the end product is mostly the same 
as the current commodities. Perhaps the essential driver in this scenario would be 
institutional change that enforces certain production methods, while it might be 
harder for producers to actually derive a business model from specific production 
methods. In sum – our results lend credence to the hypothesis that different 
transition pathways offer specific potential for and requirements of new business 
models. 

 
 
The current study has shortcomings in the sense that it only included three 
different business models. In that sense our conclusions are limited to the 
hypothetical. In future research, we hope to add more business model analyses to 
our research, to be able to learn more about the role of new business models in 
different types of scenarios.  
With regard to new business models, we opted to introduce a new concept for 
transformative business, based on the canvas business model but with some 
simplifications to make it more useful and some additions to make it better fit with 
transitions. Our analyses suggest that the eight categories in the transformative 
business model concept are applicable to three very different business models. 
Furthermore, the categories of discourses, relations, institutions and practices 
appear important to relate these business models to transition scenarios, which 
would suggest that the transformative business model concept might be useful for 
entrepreneurs that hope to contribute to transition. In turn, we hope that our 
work contributes to the success of these entrepreneurs.  
References 
Beck, U., Bonss, W., & Lau, C. (2003) The theory of reflexive modernization. 
Problematic, hypotheses and research programme. Theory, Culture & 
Society. 20 (2), 1-33. 
Beers, P. J., & Van Mierlo, B. (2017) Reflexivity and learning in system innovation 
processes. Sociologia Ruralis. 57 (3), 415-436. 
Beers, P. J., Boshuizen, H. P. A., Kirschner, P. A., Gijselaers, W., & Westendorp, J. 
(2008) Cognitive load measurements and stimulated recall interviews for 
studying the effects of information and communications technology. 
Educational Technology Research and Development. 56 (3), 309-328. 
Bocken, N. M. P., Rana, P., & Short, S. W. (2015) Value mapping for sustainable 
business thinking. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering. 32 (1), 
67-81. 
Bocken, N. M. P., & Short, S. W. (2016) Towards a sufficiency-driven business 
model: Experiences and opportunities. Environmental Innovation and 
Societal Transitions. 18, 41-61. 
Boons, F., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013) Business models for sustainable innovation: 
state-of-the-art and steps towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner 
Production. 45, 9-19. 

 
 
Dillenbourg, P. (2002) Over-scripting CSCL: The risks of blending collaborative 
learning with instructional design. In: Kirschner, P.A. (ed.) Three worlds of 
CSCL: Can we support CSCL? Heerlen, The Netherlands, Open Universiteit 
Nederland, pp. 61-91. 
Eppler, M. J., & Hoffmann, F. (2012) Does method matter? An experiment on 
collaborative business model idea generation in teams. Innovation: 
Management, policy & practice. 14 (3), 388-403. 
Ehrenfeld, J. R. (1997) Industrial Ecology: A framework for product and process 
design. Journal of Cleaner Production. 5 (1-2), 87-95. 
Geels, F. W., Kern, F., Fuchs, G., Hindere, N., Kungl, G., Mylan, J., et al. (2016) The 
enactment of socio-technical transition pathways: A reformulated typology 
and a comparative multi-level analysis of the German and UK low-carbon 
electricity transitions (1990-2014). Research Policy. 45, 896-913. 
Hendriks, C. M., & Grin, J. (2007) Contextualizing reflexive governance: the politics 
of Dutch transitions to sustainability. Journal of Environmental Policy & 
Planning. 9 (3-4), 333-350. 
Hermans, F., Horlings, I., Beers, P. J., & Mommaas, H. (2010) The contested 
redefinition of a sustainable countryside; revisiting Frouws' rurality 
discourses. Sociologia Ruralis. 50 (1), 46-63. 
Jonker, J. (Ed.) (2014) Nieuwe Business Modellen. Doetinchem / Den Haag, 
Stichting Our Common Future 2.0 / Academic Service. 
Loorbach, D., & Rotmans, J. (2006) Managing transitions for sustainable 
development. In: Olsthoorn, X. & Wieczorek A. J. (eds.), Understanding 
industrial transformation: Views from different disciplines. Dordrecht, The 
Netherlands, Springer, pp. 187-206. 
Miller, K., Park, C., Evans, S., Bamford, I., & Bocken, N. (2016, June) Critique of the 
canvas: a new honeycomb approach to business model innovation. Paper 
presented at the New Business Models Conference.  
Osterwalder, A. (2004) The business model ontology. A proposition in a design 
science approach. Lausanne, Switzerland, Université de Lausanne. 
Osterwalder, A., & Pigneur, Y. (2013) Designing business models and similar 
strategic objects: The contribution of IS. Journal of the Association for 
Information Systems. 14 (5), 237-244. 
Rotmans, J., & Loorbach, D. (2009) Complexity and transition management. 
Journal of Industrial Ecology. 13 (2), 184-196. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. G., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business models for 
sustainability: origins, present research, and future avenues. Organization & 
Environment. 29 (1), 3-10. 

 
 
Upward, A., & Jones, P. (2016) An ontology for strongly sustainable business 
models: defining an enterprise framework compatible with natural and 
social science. Organization & Environment. 29 (1), 97-123. 
 
 

 
 
Transformative incumbents? – The 
role of the private sector in innovation 
systems dedicated to sustainability 
 
Sophie Urmetzer 
Hohenheim University, Germany 
 
Abstract 
The paper explores the role of incumbent firms in innovation systems dedicated 
to a transformation to sustainability. In order to account for the systemic nature 
of global sustainability challenges, the author adopts a business model perspective 
which allows to connect individual actors’ purpose and activities with systemic 
performance. Departing from innovation systems theory, sustainability 
transitions, and corporate sustainability, a systematic literature review discloses 
previous research on the interrelation of business models and innovation systems. 
The findings reveal that there are different possibilities for firms to connect their 
business models to the functioning of innovation systems, including networking 
with peers and other allies, reconfiguring supply chains, collaboratively aligning 
existing institutions, educating consumers and suppliers, creating legitimacy and 
new markets, stakeholder involvement, and open communication of new visions 
and paradigms. These findings are distilled and incorporated in a proposed model 
of business model innovation aiming at introducing a dedication to sustainability 
to an innovation system. As such it contributes to the growing scholarship on 
business models for sustainability by taking a slightly different stance: Business 
models for driving DIS are expected to shape innovation trajectories instead of 
socio-technical system configurations. They do so by introducing a dedication to 
sustainability in innovation processes across the system, for in-stance by 
extending the logic of strategic innovation decisions from cost reduction and risk 
minimization to the creation of societal value. The research is limited by the 
paucity of relevant literature and yet lacks an empirical substantiation, which is 
beyond the scope of this conceptual paper. 
 
 

 
 
Keywords 
innovation system, dedicated innovation system, leverage points, business model, 
incumbents 
 
 

 
 
What’s in it, and for whom? 
Achieving Balanced Value Capture in Collaborative 
Cross-Sector Business Models for Sustainability 
 
Christina M. Bidmon1,*,, Henrik B. Sørensen2, Gustav Friis3, René 
Rohrbeck2, Anna B. Holm2 
 
1Católica Lisbon School of Business and Economics;                         
2Aarhus University; 2Aarhus Municipality 
 
*chb@mgmt.au.dk 
 
Extended abstract  
In the light of contemporary phenomena such as the circular economy, smart 
cities, or the sharing economy, the question of how multiple actors manage to set 
up Collaborative Cross-Sector Business Models for Sustainability (CCSBMfS) has 
attracted increasing interest (Pedersen et al., 2017). How to ensure balanced value 
capture can herein constitute a particular challenge: Configuring a collaborative 
business model is challenging because multiple actors need to work together in a 
manner that extends a traditional buyer-supplier relationship (e.g. Rohrbeck et al., 
2012). Configuring a cross-sector business model is challenging because actors 
from different sectors (e.g. private and public) have different understandings of 
what actually constitutes ‘value’ (e.g. Breuer & Lüdeke-Freund, 2017). Lastly, 
configuring a sustainable business model is challenging because of the normative 
requirement that value must not only be delivered on economic but also 
ecological and social bottom-lines (e.g., Schaltegger et al., 2016). Given this, it 
seems important to better understand how the actors involved in configuring a 
CCSBMfS align the value formulas of their individual business models and ensure 
they all have sufficient incentives to jointly operate the CCSBMfS.  
In this study, we set out to explore the barriers that actors meet in the process of 
configuring a CCSBMfS and how they manage to overcome them. We conduct an 

 
 
in-depth single case study (Ridder, Hoon, & McCandless, 2015; Stake, 2000) of a 
Mobilitity-as-a-Service (MaaS) project in Aarhus Municipality, Denmark. The case 
is a pilot project which aims at setting-up and testing a digital travel planning 
platform that integrates public transport as well as private ride-sharing. The 
project is an ideal setting to investigate the configuration of a CCSBMfS because 
the MaaS project (i) has the explicit purpose of finding out whether such a MaaS 
platform can be operated with a sustainable business case, (ii) runs over a clearly 
defined timeframe of 21 months, and (iii) depends on the collaboration of actors 
such as the city, various municipalities, private train and bus companies, existing 
car- and bike-sharing operators, and software companies that each have diverging 
stakes in setting-up such a platform.  
Based on a comprehensive data set consisting of participant observations from 
project workshops and meetings, documentary data such as status reports and 
project presentations, as well as interviews with key informants, we highlight 
which barriers the project partners faced and which practices they used in the 
process of configuring a CCSBMfS. The findings from our preliminary, inductive 
data analysis indicate the reliance on a threefold set of practices as helpful for 
overcoming the barriers to configuring a CCSBMfS:  
Practices to overcome non-transparency and non-disclosure: We found that 
unawareness of the other parties’ value formulas as well as uncertainty 
about the effect of the MaaS platform on the own operations were 
consistent concerns for the individual actors in the project. Competitive 
dynamics and ill-informed assumptions about others’ rationale for 
participation further aggravated these concerns. In the paper, we show 
how the project partners managed to establish an understanding for each 
other’s strategic interests as well as their individual must-haves and deal-
breakers for joining the platform, so that they could agree on how an 
attractive value formula for MaaS in the municipality of Aarhus can look 
like.  
Practices to overcome non-compatibility: Despite differences in the 
understanding of the potential value of the platform and the ‘business 
case’ for themselves, all the actors recognized sustainability as a ‘bigger 
reason’ to participate in MaaS. Yet, their collaboration was hampered by 
different working logics (such as start-ups versus public authorities) or 
their different planning and return-on-investment horizons. In the paper, 
we illustrate how actors configured and re-configured responsibilities and 
resources over the course of testing and prototyping the MaaS platform, 

 
 
so that they could eventually establish activity systems beneficial for all of 
them. 
Practices to overcome non-practicability: A number of practical challenges 
made it difficult to keep up momentum and motivation over the course of 
the project. As typical in such settings, no single actor had formal authority 
over the others and participants only came together for a limited time in 
project meetings. In the paper, we carve out how they still managed to 
build a sense of direction, maintained a joint purpose, and dealt with set-
backs and delays. We pay particular attention to the importance of 
different actor roles in coordinating and governing a seemingly tedious 
process. 
Based on our findings, we reflect on the fragile, iterative nature of the process in 
which multiple actors move toward configuring a CCSBMfS. We discuss the 
boundary conditions of our findings and how generalizable they are to other 
business models. Specifically, we theorize on the interplay and relevance of certain 
practices in distinct project phases, and we discuss implications on how to 
facilitate the process of finding balanced value capture against current 
recommendations in the literature on collaborative business modelling (Rohrbeck 
et al., 2012; Lüdeke-Freund & Breuer, 2017; Kurucz et al., 2017). 
For scholars, our study provides insights into the design of CCSBMfS and the means 
that help actors to pragmatically move forward with an uncertain endeavor 
(Ferraro et al., 2015; Linder & Williander, 2017). The findings from launching MaaS 
in Aarhus also add to the general business model literature, which has often been 
criticized for its focus on ideation instead of implementation, single organizations 
instead of multi-party settings, and a rather one-sided perspective on economic 
value (e.g., Bocken et al., 2016; Joyce & Paquin, 2016).  
For practitioners, such as follower-cities, our findings hold practical implications 
on how to facilitate the set-up of MaaS, or a CCSBMfS, in general. For instance, 
they highlight the barriers project managers need to take into account, and the 
necessary skills for facilitating discussions between actors with diverging interests.  
CCSBMfS are becoming an ever more important organizing form in our society. 
Projects such as the MaaS platform in Aarhus are part of many contemporary 
initiatives to green cities. It is thus important to further understand how the 
process of designing a CCSBMfS can accommodate actors’ individual interests so 
that they can give way to the imperatives of sustainable development as a larger 
whole.  

 
 
Keywords 
Sustainable business models, Collaborative Business Modelling, Value Capture, 
Mobility-as-a-Service, Business Model Validation 
References 
Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2013). A Value Mapping Tool for 
Sustainable Business Modelling. Corporate Governance: The International 
Journal of Business in Society, 13(5), 482–497. 
Breuer, H., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2017). Values-based Network and Business 
Model Innovation. International Journal of Innovation Management, 21(3), 
1–35. 
Ferraro, F., Etzion, D., & Gehman, J. (2015). Tackling Grand Challenges 
Pragmatically: Robust Action Revisited. Organization Studies, 36(3), 363–
390. 
Joyce, A., & Paquin, R. L. (2016). The Triple Layered Business Model Canvas: A Tool 
to Design more Sustainable Business Models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
135, 1474–1486. 
Kurucz, E., Colbert, B., Lüdeke-Freund, F., Upward, A., & Willard, B. (2017). 
Relational Leadership for Strategic Sustainability: Practices and Capabilities 
to Advance the Design and Assessment of Sustainable Business Models. 
Journal of Cleaner Production, 140, 189–204. 
Linder, M., & Williander, M. (2017). Circular Business Model Innovation: Inherent 
Uncertainties. Business Strategy and the Environment, 26(2), 182–196. 
Pedersen, E., Lüdeke-Freund, F., Henriques, I., & Seitanidi, M. (2017). Collaborative 
Cross-Sector Business Models for Sustainability, Call for Papers for a Special 
Issue 
in 
Business 
& 
Society, 
Available 
from: 
https://journals.sagepub.com/pb-assets/cmscontent/BAS/Cross-
sectorSpecialIssueCFP.pdf, [Accessed 15th January 2019]. 
Ridder, H.-G., Hoon, C., & McCandless, A. (2009). The theoretical contribution of 
case study research to the field of strategy and management. In: Bergh, D. 
& Ketchen, D. J. (eds.) Research Methodology in Strategy and Management, 
pp. 137-175. 
Rohrbeck, R., Konnertz, L., & Knab, S. (2013). Collaborative business modelling for 
systemic and sustainability innovations. International Journal of Technology 
Management, 63(1/2), 4–23. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016). Business Models for 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues. Organization 
& Environment, 29(1), 3–10. 

 
 
Stake, R. E. (2000). Case Studies. In: Denzin; N. & Lincoln, Y.S. (eds.), Handbook of 
Qualitative Research, pp. 435-4 
 

 
 
 
INSIGHTS ON BUSINESS 
MODELS FROM YOUNG 
ACADEMICS 
TRACK VIII 

 
 
Track VIII: Insights on New Business Models from Young 
Academics 
 
Chairs: Ana Paula Barquet1 and Martin Glinik2 
1TU Berlin, Germany; 2Graz University of Technology, Austria 
 
This session focuses on scientific contributions from young academics – including 
PhD and graduate students. This means, the session provides young academics 
with the opportunity to present their studies and research results as well as to 
explain their points of view on research on new business models for sustainability. 
The presented research must be related to the conference theme or, more 
precisely, the relevant issues defined in the call for contributions. It is possible to 
present the research as works-in-progress. In this manner, the session for young 
academics will contribute and give relevant insights as well as food for thought on 
students’ research on new business models for sustainable entrepreneurship, 
innovation, and transformation. 
 
 

 
 
An Overlooked Aspect of Sustainable 
Business Models: Consumption 
Practices 
Insights from the home furnishings sector 
 
Heather Schoonover 
The International Institute for Industrial Environmental Economics 
(IIIEE), Lund University | Lund, Sweden 
 
heather.schoonover@iiiee.lu.se 
 
Extended abstract  
It is increasingly recognized that addressing sustainability challenges must go 
beyond efficiency-oriented approaches and include widespread changes to 
current patterns of consumption (Seyfang, 2009). Sustainable business models 
hold promise for changing such patterns, whether by seeking to reduce consumer 
demand, as in the case of sufficiency-based models (Bocken & Short, 2016), shift 
the focus of companies’ offerings from products to services, as with product-
service systems (Tukker, 2015), or provide access rather than ownership, such as 
through sharing (Belk, 2014).  
However, if the aim of these and other sustainable business models is to facilitate 
changes in how people consume, it is important to consider the possible 
consumption practices they might encourage. For example, as demonstrated by 
criticism of companies such as Uber and AirBnB (Jericho, 2016), business models 
that purport to facilitate a particular type of consumption behaviour (in this case, 
sharing) can result in very different consumer practices – with a similarly wide 
range of sustainability implications (Curtis & Lehner, 2019).  

 
 
Literature on sustainable business models tends to focus on how companies can 
create, deliver and capture value (e.g., Evans et al., 2017; Lüdeke-Freund, Carroux, 
Joyce, Massa, & Breuer, 2018), but largely neglects to discuss how consumers 
might respond to these new offerings. Several articles point to a lack of consumer 
acceptance as one barrier to the success of sustainable business models (e.g., 
Camacho-Otero, Boks, & Pettersen, 2018; Laukkanen & Patala, 2014) but either 
do not delve deeply into why such models have not resonated with consumers, or 
remain on a largely theoretical level. At the same time, a lack of empirical studies 
of sustainable business models (Evans et al., 2017) makes it difficult to assess 
consumer responses.   
Researchers within the project Sustainable Consumption: From Niche to 
Mainstream, led by several Swedish universities and in collaboration with a range 
of practitioners, propose taking a different approach. Although recognizing that 
new business models are essential for furthering sustainable consumption 
practices, rather than starting with business models, we have sought to first gather 
and classify desirable consumption practices. Having collected and analysed these 
data, via a survey of project partners’ extended networks and a content analysis, 
we are now exploring how different business models might be devised to best 
support them. While this research is currently a work in progress, our aim is to 
develop a conceptual model for linking desired consumption practices and 
innovative business model design.  
The Sustainable Consumption project comprises the areas of food, vacationing and 
home furnishings; here we focus on the case of home furnishings (furniture and 
home textiles). Consumption of home furnishings is increasing, driven in part by 
seasonal trends that result in more frequent replacement (Conlon, 2019). At the 
same time, the EU discards approximately 10 million tonnes of furniture each year, 
of which an estimated 80%-90% is either incinerated or sent to landfill – and much 
before the end of its useful life (Forrest, Hilton, Ballinger, & Whittaker, 2017). In 
addition to taking up landfill space, replacing discarded items with new ones 
generates substantial environmental impacts, with the majority of furnishings-
related CO2 emissions coming in the raw materials extraction phase (Donatello, 
Caldas, & Wolf, 2017). Key to addressing this issue is thus reducing the demand 
for new home furnishings products. 
Based on our research thus far, consumption practices such as upcycling, renting, 
refurbishing, repairing, sharing, and purchasing second-hand home furnishings 

 
 
have the potential to reduce the purchase of new items (Lehner, Schoonover, 
Mont, Bradley, & Svenfelt, 2019). They can do so either by decreasing the volume 
or frequency of purchases, extending product lifetimes, or keeping products out 
of the waste stream. At present, most of them are taking place in niches, such as 
via peer-to-peer platforms or repair cafés (Lehner et al., 2019). Making these 
practices more widespread requires, in part, developing innovative business 
models to make them more available to more people. 
Companies have started exploring potential ways to extend product life and to 
devise reuse systems for home furnishing products – such as IKEA’s 
announcement of a leasing program to be piloted in Switzerland (Milne, 2019). In 
Sweden, ReTuna (https://www.retuna.se/), a shopping mall occupied entirely by 
retailers offering second hand and upcycled products, and Hemmlis 
(http://hemmlis.se/), a small company offering furniture rental to students, 
similarly aspire to drive changes in furnishings consumption practices through 
innovative business models.  
While these efforts have the potential to generate positive sustainability impacts, 
the actual results depend on the consumption practices of their users. For 
example, although furniture rental could extend product lifetimes through 
multiple cycles of use, if a lack of ownership drives people to take poorer care of 
their furnishings than if they were their own – as has been identified as a risk in 
leasing arrangements (Tukker, 2015) – it could instead lead to a need for more 
frequent replacement. Thus, in designing a sustainable business model to facilitate 
furnishings rental, it is important to consider and address these factors. One such 
strategy might be to apply the idea of psychological ownership to increase product 
attachment (Baxter, Aurisicchio, & Childs, 2015), such as by building in the 
possibility to temporarily customise rental items (Tunn, Fokker, Luijkx, De Jong, & 
Schoormans, 2019).  
Relatedly, if sustainable business models are intended to influence consumption 
behaviour, it is also important to understand what drives people’s consumption 
decisions. Within sustainable business model literature, there seems to be an 
assumption, whether explicit or implicit, that the consumers such models aim to 
reach are themselves motivated by sustainability concerns. Hence, a number of 
the strategies firms employ to influence consumers include sustainability-related 
education or awareness-raising (Bocken, 2017). However, a study of consumer 
attitudes toward second-hand, access-based, and collaborative consumption of 

 
 
home furnishings found a diversity of drivers for engaging in these sustainable 
consumption practices – including convenience, desire for uniqueness, and access 
to community – with environmental concerns ranking quite low (Gullstrand 
Edbring, Lehner, & Mont, 2016). In addition, cultural theories of consumption 
posit that people consume as a way to signify meaning, identity, or social standing 
(Arnould & Thompson, 2005) – factors that have also been found to play a role in 
the purchase of furniture and home furnishings (Reimer & Leslie, 2004).  
Rather than trying to influence consumers to more highly value sustainability, if 
the goal of sustainable business models is to encourage particular consumption 
practices, it would seem to make sense for such models to be designed to 
acknowledge and leverage the diversity of consumption drivers. In other words, if 
the end practice facilitated by the business model is more sustainable, does it 
matter whether consumers engage in it out of sustainability concerns or for other 
reasons?  
Better understanding and taking into account the diversity of consumption drivers 
and practices can help ensure that sustainable business models both resonate 
with consumers and deliver the desired sustainability results. This research 
contributes to sustainable business model literature in emphasizing the 
importance of considering these factors in business model design. It also 
contributes to literature on sustainable consumption by demonstrating how 
business models might be used to facilitate sustainable consumption practices. 
Finally, it can be useful to practitioners for informing how they might innovate in 
terms of how they create, deliver, and capture value.  
Keywords 
Sustainable Business Models, Sustainable Consumption, Consumption Practices, 
Home Furnishings 
References 
Arnould, E. J., & Thompson, C. J. (2005). Consumer Culture Theory (CCT): Twenty 
Years of Research. Journal of Consumer Research, 31(4), 868–882. 
https://doi.org/10.1086/426626 
Baxter, W. L., Aurisicchio, M., & Childs, P. R. N. (2015). A psychological ownership 
approach to designing object attachment. Journal of Engineering Design, 
26(4–6), 140–156. https://doi.org/10.1080/09544828.2015.1030371 

 
 
Belk, R. (2014). You are what you can access: Sharing and collaborative 
consumption online. Journal of Business Research, 67(8), 1595–1600. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2013.10.001 
Bocken, N. (2017). Business-led sustainable consumption initiatives: impacts and 
lessons learned. Journal of Management Development, 36(1), 81–96. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/JMD-10-2014-0136 
Bocken, N., & Short, S. W. (2016). Towards a sufficiency-driven business model: 
Experiences and opportunities. Environmental Innovation and Societal 
Transitions, 18, 41–61. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eist.2015.07.010 
Camacho-Otero, J., Boks, C., & Pettersen, I. (2018). Consumption in the Circular 
Economy: 
A 
Literature 
Review. 
Sustainability, 
10(8), 
2758. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su10082758 
Conlon, S. (2019, January 30). Selfie v shelfie: fashion’s growing appetite for 
interiors. 
The 
Guardian. 
Retrieved 
from 
https://www.theguardian.com/fashion/2019/jan/30/selfie-v-shelfie-
fashion-interiors-backdrops-clothes-online-brands-home-accessories-decor 
Curtis, S. K., & Lehner, M. (2019). Defining the Sharing Economy for Sustainability. 
Sustainability, 11(3), 567. https://doi.org/10.3390/su11030567 
Donatello, S., Caldas, M. G., & Wolf, O. (2017). Revision of the EU Green Public 
Procurement (GPP) criteria for Furniture (p. 149). European Commission 
Joint Research Centre. 
Evans, S., Vladimirova, D., Holgado, M., Fossen, K. V., Yang, M., Silva, E. A., & 
Barlow, C. Y. (2017). Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards 
a Unified Perspective for Creation of Sustainable Business Models. Business 
Strategy 
and 
the 
Environment, 
26(5), 
597–608. 
https://doi.org/10.1002/bse.1939 
Forrest, A., Hilton, M., Ballinger, A., & Whittaker, D. (2017). Circular Economy 
Opportunities in the Furniture Sector. European Environmental Bureau. 
Gullstrand Edbring, E., Lehner, M., & Mont, O. (2016). Exploring consumer 
attitudes to alternative models of consumption: motivations and barriers. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
123, 
5–15. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.10.107 
Jericho, G. (2016, April 18). The dark side of Uber: why the sharing economy needs 
tougher 
rules 
| 
Greg 
Jericho. 
The 
Guardian. 
Retrieved 
from 
https://www.theguardian.com/business/grogonomics/2016/apr/18/uber-
airbnb-sharing-economy-tougher-rules-australia 
Laukkanen, M., & Patala, S. (2014). Analysing barriers to sustainable business 
model innovations: Innovation systems approach. International Journal of 
Innovation Management, 18, 1440010. 

 
 
Lehner, M., Schoonover, H., Mont, O., Bradley, K., & Svenfelt, Å. (2019). Att inreda 
hållbart? En kartläggning av vad hållbar heminredning kan innebära. Mistra 
Sustainable Consumption, Rapport 1.1. Stockholm: KTH. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Carroux, S., Joyce, A., Massa, L., & Breuer, H. (2018). The 
sustainable business model pattern taxonomy—45 patterns to support 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable Production 
and Consumption, 15, 145–162. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.spc.2018.06.004 
Milne, R. (2019, February 3). Ikea to trial furniture leasing in business overhaul. 
Financial Times. Retrieved from https://www.ft.com/content/da461f24-
261c-11e9-8ce6-5db4543da632 
Reimer, S., & Leslie, D. (2004). Identity, Consumption, and the Home. Home 
Cultures, 1(2), 187–210. https://doi.org/10.2752/174063104778053536 
Seyfang, G. (2009). The new economics of sustainable consumption: seeds of 
change. Basingstoke [England] ; New York: Palgrave Macmillan. 
Tukker, A. (2015). Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy – 
a 
review. 
Journal 
of 
Cleaner 
Production, 
97, 
76–91. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.049 
Tunn, V., Fokker, R., Luijkx, K., De Jong, S., & Schoormans, J. (2019). Making Ours 
Mine: Increasing Consumer Acceptance of Access-Based PSS through 
Temporary 
Product 
Customisation. 
Sustainability, 
11(1), 
274. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su11010274 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Business model co-creation for social 
value generation in emerging 
economy tourist destinations 
 
Ieva Žebrytė1,2,*, Hector Jorquera3,4 
 
1Department of Management and Economics, Universidad de La 
Frontera, Chile; 2ISM University of Management and Economics, 
Lithuania; 3AraucaniaHUB, La Araucania, Chile; 4GenteExpressa, Chile 
 
*ieva.zebryte@stud.ism.lt  
 
Abstract  
This paper reports on a case study structured as action research in the form of 
entrepreneur capacity building whereby the academics, social business experts 
and tourism sector entrepreneurs applied and tested business model innovation 
method-process called FM+3, for short. It is a business model canvas-based 
method-process which draws upon social impact and value creation as they are 
understood by entrepreneurs, namely triple-bottom line within the mission 
underlying the entrepreneuring practices guided by specific design principles. This 
study addresses the question of how entrepreneurs situated in emerging 
economies, such as tourist destinations of Chilean Northern Patagonia, generate 
social impact-oriented value propositions through BMC innovation? The research 
reveals that FM+3 method-procedure is a viable practitioner’s tool for structuring 
social purpose business model innovation. The implications for the academia 
include better understanding of how social business model innovation is 
implemented in practice, while practical implications include a tool deployable to 
foster social impact and value generation through business model innovation by 
entrepreneurs aided by mentors. Finally, public policy implications are in that for 
entrepreneurship in services to grow stronger service-specific innovation 
mentoring methods-processes need to be finetuned, custom designed and by 
themselves, innovative. 

 
 
Keywords 
social entrepreneuring, business model, social impact, value co-creation, 
emerging economies. 
 
 
 

 
 
Business models in the development 
of new materials in the garment 
industry in and beyond the 
Netherlands 
 
Iris Lommerse1,*,+, Ellen Loots2,  
 
1Erasmus University Rotterdam; 2Erasmus University Rotterdam;  
 
*lommerseiris@gmail.com 
 
+This is a work in progress. 
 
Extended abstract  
Claimed to be one of the most polluting industries in the world (Strähle & Müller, 
2016), 
currently, the fashion industry faces enormous environmental as well as societal 
challenges. 
During the 20th century, some key developments have transformed the fashion 
industry to a great extent, one being the increasing outsourcing of production to 
low income countries. This allowed for mass-consumption and ‘push products’ to 
enter the Western Fashion market, creating a ‘race to the bottom’ which we know 
today in the fast fashion industry (Clark, 2008). As a reaction, the “slow fashion” 
movement started to gain ground, which is based on values like sustainability, 
social responsibility, and transparency (ibidem). This movement includes various 
aspects, of which new materialism and up-cycling are vital (Ainamo, 2014). In the 
niche markets and local production networks of the slow fashion movement, the 
maker movement is fostering innovation on a local scale with open innovation and 
knowledge sharing as its core characteristics. This movement has created 
opportunities for producers-entrepreneurs to introduce their innovations for the 
making and sharing economy (Browder et al., 2019). Insiders increasingly 

 
 
acknowledge that a global shift to circular business models would most likely not 
just address environmental and societal issues but also benefit the industry 
(Brennan et al. (2015); Ellen MacArthur foundation (2012); Mckinsey & BOF 
(2018)). Examples of business models that are currently in use include the Blue 
Economy model established by Pauli (2010), with a focus on local production and 
increased resource efficiency; and the Cradle-to-Cradle principle by McDonough 
& Braungart (2002), which is based on the belief that a product is designed to have 
various life cycles or is biodegradable.  
Today still, a gap in both the literature and practice exists regarding the business 
side of circularity in fashion, with tensions between commercial viewpoint and 
circular innovations being articulated (Hussain, 2018). The aim of this research is 
to contribute to the empirical gap in the literature on circular business models in 
the fashion industry, with a focus on local production in the Netherlands. 
Our case study  
In this study, the focus is on the local production industry working outside the 
traditional business models of the current fashion industry. The production 
process of a new material that can possibly be used by fashion designers to design 
for a circular economy will be taken into the scope in this research: it is about the 
journey from cradle- to cradle, where waste is seen as a product. 
Our setting is the Netherlands, a country that seeks to be a forerunner in bringing 
together technology and circularity, for example in the development of bio-based 
emergent materials. Concurrently, sustainability (particularly in relation to the 
climate change) and its impact on business models, products, services, 
technologies, innovation and design, are high on the political agenda. As a case, 
the Netherlands is interesting, because even if a strong tradition in fashion is 
lacking and the domestic fashion industry is limited in size, it is characterized by 
increasingly more small companies that engage with alternative and sustainable 
fashion design and production, for example in denim (Lavanga, 2019). 
Methodology 
To foster the shift towards a circular way of doing business, business model and 
design strategies will need to merge and furthermore case studies are needed to 
test the strategies of circular economy thinking (Bocken et al., 2016). In this 
research an ethnographic research is combined with a multiple-case study using 

 
 
qualitative analysis. The data collection technique of participant observation in the 
ethnographic component gives the researcher the ability to get an in-depth 
understanding of the phenomena (Lacono et al., 2009).  Such an approach is vital 
to an unexplored area such as the sustainable innovation business models in the 
Dutch garment industry. By closely following one project specifically, which brings 
together a variety of stakeholders ranging from the horticulture industries to the 
fashion industry, in-depth analysis and rich understanding of the business 
processes is achieved. This has been done before by for example Antikainen and 
Valkokaro (2016), who scrutinized circular business models based on 
remanufacturing and reuse by means of a longitudinal study, and by Sosna et al 
(2010) who took a similarly dynamic perspective to study the antecedents and 
drivers of business model innovation in a Spanish healthy food business. 
The action research component of the present study consists of the effectuation 
of a suitable business model, that is inspired by both the literature and practice. 
For the latter we conduct semi-structured in-depth interviews with a purposive 
sample of entrepreneurs who are already producing and in business with textile 
products made from residual and/or post-consumer waste. Concretely, we 
interviewed at total of four forerunners (in the Netherlands) based on which we 
purport the action research cycle of planning, acting, observing, and reflecting 
(Sarah et al, 2002), that jointly fuel the actual development of a novel solution on 
the one hand, and insight in the possible challenges and shortcomings to the 
developing local garment industry working with new materials on the other hand. 
Expected results and conclusion 
In our study, we connect the innovation and entrepreneurship literatures, we 
account for the stakes of diverse actors in the entrepreneurial ecosystems in the 
creative and agro-industries, we review business models in circular production, 
and we apply those to a solution concurrently being developed, all in order to 
contribute to, first, the academic literature on circular business models focused 
on local production, and second, the transition of the non-sustainable (Dutch) 
fashion industry into a more sustainable one. 
Hence, next to the academic community that seeks to better understand the 
antecedents, 
processes and outcomes of sustainable innovation initiatives and business models, 
the 

 
 
stakeholders of this interdisciplinary project are also cultural entrepreneurs, 
textile designers and producers, chemists and horticulture producers. To these 
pioneers in innovative business, our study seeks to present an overview of current 
and future circular business models, particularly targeted at new material 
production with a focus of textile. Furthermore, it seeks to evaluate the saliency 
and effectiveness of a business model, by means of our action-led research of 
TomatenTextiel as a case. Indeed, within a country such as the Netherlands, where 
the garment industry has been outsourced for decades, the frontrunners of the 
new materials face multiple challenges related to the local production network. 
Their businesses are rather small, with challenges to scale up. At the same time, it 
is acknowledged that their businesses hold great potential as the fashion industry 
foresees trends of near-shoring and small businesses that provide a narrative 
approach and transparency to the consumer (McKinsey & BOF, 2018). Providing 
this group of pioneers the tools to develop their business that ensures circularity, 
whilst honoring the sustainable development goals, is vital for the success of a 
niche market. 
 
We believe this case study contributes to NBM 2019 because it addresses 
innovation of the Dutch textile industry, taking circular business models as the 
common thread. Besides the theoretical aspects, the case study and the interview 
data give an insight in the current practical business way of doing, which provides 
an unique and highly relevant connection to the themes discussed at the NBM 
2019. Furthermore, the study can give sustainable entrepreneurs the ability to 
contribute to the development of new business models for sustainability. 
Keywords: circular business models, slow fashion, maker movement, new 
material, local production.  
 
 
 

 
 
References 
Aninamo, A. (2014). Rethinking textile fashion: New materiality, smart products 
and upcycling. Swedish design Research Journal 12 (2): 53-60. 
Antikainen, M., & Valkokari, K. (2016). A framework for sustainable circular 
business model innovation. Technology Innovation Management Review, 
6(7). 
Brennan, G., Tennant, M., Blomsma, F., (2015). Business and production solutions: 
closing loops and the circular economy. In: Kopnina, H., Blewitt, J. (Eds.), 
Sustainability: Key Issues. Routledge, London, United Kingdom 
Browder, R. E., Aldrich, H. E., & Bradley, S. W. (2019). The emergence of the maker 
movement: Implications for entrepreneurship research. Journal of Business 
Venturing,34(3), 459-476. doi:10.1016/j.jbusvent.2019.01.005 
City of Rotterdam, Making sustainability a way of life for Rotterdam, Rotterdam 
programme on sustainability and climate change 2015-2018, City of 
Rotterdam. 
Clark, Hazel (2008) SLOW+FASHION-an oxymoron- or a promise for the future? 
Fashion theory, 2(4), pp. 427-446, DOI: 10.2752/175174108X346922 
Greenport West Holland (2019). Een t-shirt van tomaten? Available from 
https://tomatentextiel.nl/ [Accessed 15th February 2019]. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2012). Towards the Circular Economy: Economic and 
Business Rationale for an Accelerated Transition. Available from 
https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/assets/downloads/publication
s/Ellen-MacArthur-Foundation-Towards-the-Circular-Economy-vol.1.pdf 
[Accessed 15th of February 2019]. 
Lacono, J., Brown, A., Holtham, C. (2009). Research methods - a case Example of 
Participant Observation. The Electronic Journal of Business Research 
Methods, 7 (1), 39-46. 
Lavanga, M. (2019). Sustainable fashion in the Netherlands (2019). In A. Gwilt, E..A. 
Ruthschilling & A. Payne (Eds.), Mapping Sustainable Fashion: Global Perspectives. 
London: Bloomsbury Academic Publishers. 
McDonough, W., & Braungart, M. (2002). Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We 
Do Things. North Point Press: New York 
McKinsey & BOF (2018). The state of fashion 2018. New York 
Pauli, G. (2010). The blue economy: 10 years, 100 innovations, 100 million jobs. 
Taos, NM: Paradigm Publications. 

 
 
Sarah, R., Haslett, T., Molineux, J., Olsen, J., Stephens, J., Tepe, S., & Walker, B. 
(2002). Business action research in practice—a strategic conversation about 
conducting action research in business organizations. Systemic Practice and 
Action Research, 15(6), 535-546. 
Sosna, M., Trevinyo-Rodríguez, R. N., & Velamuri, S. R. (2010). Business model 
innovation through trial-and-error learning: The Naturhouse case. Long 
range planning, 43(2-3), 383-407. 
Strähle, J., & Müller, V. (2016). Key Aspects of Sustainability in Fashion Retail. 
Springer Series 
in 
Fashion 
Business 
Green 
Fashion 
Retail,7-26. 
doi:10.1007/978-981-10-2440-5_2 
 
 

 
 
Framework for service business model 
innovation 
An explanatory case study on BMW ConnectedDrive 
services  
 
Prasanna kumar kukkamalla1,*,+, Andrea Bikfalvi 1, Anna Arbussa 
Reixach 2,  
 
1*,+,1,2  Department of Business Administration and Product Design; 
Girona University 
 
*prasanna@aol.in 
 
Abstract  
Purpose: The purpose is to construct a service business model innovation (BMI) 
framework with key factor that influences firm’s business model development  
Design/methodology/approach: The study employs hybrid methodology. First, 
the literature review is performed to find factors influencing BMI and service BMI 
framework is constructed. Then empirical data from case firm’s website and the 
press release is collected. In total 52 official documents used in this study.   
Findings: The service BMI is constructed, based on factors emerged from literature 
review. The study categorized these factors as pushers, motivators, and 
facilitators. The evolution of digital services of BMW is narrated though BMI 
framework. 
Research limitations: The study depends on secondary data from BMW website. 
The model is validated with only single case study. 
Theoretical implication: The developed model could provide new insights into 
BMI. The study recommends scholars to evaluate this model with empirical data 
and a different industry context.  

 
 
Practical Implications: The model provides managers with a clear view of key 
factors that influence business model development.  
Originality/value:  As a novel contribution, key factors generated from literature 
and categorised in to 3 groups such as pushers, motivators, and facilitators. Then 
service BMI is constructed with these factors and evaluates with a single case firm. 
Keywords: Business model innovation, Framework, Automotive industry, 
Servitization, Service innovation 
1. Introduction 
Recent technological innovation, market dynamics, change in industrial 
landscapes, and customer preference paralyzed the traditional business model of 
manufacturing firms. To sustain in this competitive market, firms are moving to a 
customer service business. This new trend has escalated in the manufacturing 
industry, popularized as service-integration in the business world, and is well 
known as 'Servitization' (Vandermerwe and Rada) in the literature. The service 
integration re-organizes all business activities and ultimately resulting in business 
model innovation (BMI) of the firms. This evolution of service BMI has become of 
increasing attention both in practice and research communities (Chagas, 2016; 
Adrodegari et al., 2018). The literature has produced extensive knowledge in 
different dimensions like organisational perspective, competitive advantage, 
design thinking, sustainability,  and transition (Foss and Saebi, 2015, 2017; Sarasini 
and Langeland, 2015; Brannon and Wiklund, 2016; Liu et al., 2017; Anwar, 2018; 
Beltagui, 2018b), but still silent on context-specific such as service BMI. Hence, it 
is appropriate to initiate discussions on conceptual theories backend by empirical 
evidence of BMI during service integration to enhance the knowledge of BMI in a 
different context. Accordingly, the purpose of this study is to extend our 
understanding of BMI for servitization in the automotive industry context. To 
achieve this, we build a holistic framework for service BMI with themes emerged 
from the literature and validate them with a case example from the automotive 
industry. 
 
The BMI is novel and complex in nature, and it connects with various dimensions 
like corporate strategy, technological capabilities and innovation processes of the 
firm. The BMI will be more attractive when the firm articulates 
multidimensionality (Spieth et al., 2014; Foss and Saebi, 2016). Since BMI is aimed 
at preparing the firm to create, deliver, and capture value (Teece, 2010), is tightly 

 
 
linked to the idea of entrepreneurial vision, imagination, and judgment of 
organization. (Foss and Saebi, 2017). Market dynamics such as business trends, 
and technology innovations severally impacting the firm's business activities. A 
recent trend in the manufacturing industry, recognized as service integrations 
(Servitization), completely reconfiguring the business model architecture. This 
service integration reflects a shift from selling products to selling integrated 
products and services that deliver value in use (Baines et al., 2009). The shift to 
service-centric business is considered an important driver of BMI and it changes 
value propositions from product to services (Witell and Löfgren, 2013). Often BMI 
is the result of external factors, like competition law, labor market legislation, and 
environmental legislation. For example, Uber (transportation) or Airbnb 
(accommodation) BM (business model) is severely suppressed by the country’s 
competition law, as these BMs are considered disruptive to the traditional 
incumbents in their industries (Foss and Saebi, 2017),  vice versa BMI gain support 
from legislative bodies, for example, BMW's new mobility service in UK57 and 
Germany58 is well supported by the regional authorities, as these services are 
aligned with the  regional authority’s vision for sustainable mobility solutions. 
Periodically, BMs are impacted by technological innovations (Jetter, Satzger and 
Neus, 2009; Gambardella and McGahan, 2010; Cavalcante, 2013; Bouwman et al., 
2018) either by creating an opportunity or taking risk which will result in  
competitive advantage (Lloyd, 2001) or disruption (Lyytinen and Rose, 2003). The 
BMI is accelerated by many factors, for example, co-operation, it involves 
collaboration with external suppliers to acquire knowledge and resources (Foss 
and Saebi, 2015). In fact, open innovation BMs facilitate the integration and 
commercialization of external resources (Chesbrough and Crowther, 2006; 
Laursen and Salter, 2006), and create the new value constellation (Corsaro et al., 
2012; Dellyana, Simatupang and Dhewanto, 2018). 
In spite of the huge debate on BMI and knowledge, the literature is still selective 
to define concepts of BMI. With an extensive literature on BMI, Foss and Saebi 
(2016) called for conceptual clarification, theoretical models, and cumulative 
empirical work on BMI in order to advance the literature. While much attention 
                                                 
57 BMW app launches “drive by the minute, park anywhere” car sharing service in Islington, Hackney and Haringey, 05 December 
2014 
 https://www.islingtongazette.co.uk/news/bmw-app-launches-drive-by-the-minute-park-anywhere-car-sharing-service-in-
islington-hackney-and-haringey-1-3875453 
58 BMW Group and Hamburg announce strategic partnership to provide electro-mobility options all across the city of Hamburg, 
BMW Press note  10 May,2017. 
https://www.press.bmwgroup.com/global/article/detail/T0270599EN/bmw-group-and-hamburg-announce-strategic-
partnership-to-provide-electro-mobility-options-all-across-the-city-of-hamburg?language=en 
 

 
 
has been paid from practitioners and research communities on BMI, Foss and 
Saebi (2016) findings raise a number of crucial theoretical and empirical questions: 
What are the drivers, facilitators, and hindrances of the innovation of a BM?  Such 
perspectives are not revealed, explored and debated and academic treatment of 
business models has itself become rather diffuse (Chagas, 2016). More precisely, 
new knowledge is needed on the drivers of BMI (Foss and Saebi, 2017), dynamic 
capabilities (Zott et al., 2011), customer segments  (Peteraf and Barney, 2003), 
firm-level variables and influence of social institutions (Foss and Saebi, 2017). 
Therefore, by capturing the BMI study’s conclusions and research calls from 
scholars, we aspire to contribute knowledge on impacting factors of service BMI. 
To fulfill this desire, we narrow down our focus on service BMI of BMW Company. 
To accomplish this, the study framed a research question, how do car 
manufacturing firm orchestrate BMI for advanced services? By answering this 
research question, the study can contribute knowledge to the BMI and 
servitization literature.  
The paper is structured in 5 sections, after the introduction of the research topic 
and study purpose (Section 1), we presents and discuss a conceptual framework 
for service BMI in section 2. The Section 3 provides comprehensive data on the 
methodology adopted, case selection, data extractions, and analysis steps. After 
that, in the section 4, we narrate the BMI of the case through the framework. 
Section 5 summarizes the conclusion, contributions and provides future research 
directions. The appendix gives complete information about data nature, sources 
and time period. 
2. Conceptual framework 
Through the systematic review of BMI antecedents and conceptual framework 
studies, we have generated a set of themes which influence the BMI, and build a 
conceptual framework which provides a comprehensive view on BMI (Fig 1).  
The business model research has been flourished with contributions from various 
research communities such as Business Strategy, Management and Accounting, 
Business model, Economics, Econometrics and Finance, and Decision Sciences and 
service innovation. The BM literature has ballooned into two perspectives, firm-
level and industry level (Hacklin et al., 2018). The firm-level variables such as 
organizational values, organizational culture, organizational design, and dynamic 
capabilities have been debated extensively in the literature but industry-level 

 
 
dynamics such as technological innovation, market dynamics, service integration 
trend (Servitization, Vandermerwe, and Rada, 1988) are still unfolded (Hacklin et 
al., 2018).  
The organizational perspective of BMI has discussed well by scholars, for example, 
a recent study by  Ammar and Chereau (2018) suggested that SMEs can leverage 
specific BMI components through their entrepreneurial, engineering and 
administrative choices. But before changing the business model, firms need to 
identify specific needs for change (Leih et al., 2014). Sometime BMI is an integral 
part of the organizational response and corresponds with adaptation as a 
constitutive element of resilience (Sund et al., 2014). Gambardella and McGahan 
(2010) appeal that BMI requires the enterprising insight, entrepreneurial energy 
and unyielding commitment to implementation that has characterized the 
breakthrough business models of the past. In continuation with this line, Hock et 
al. (2016) suggest that a significant part of the business model cannot be 
understood without an investigation of the underlying logic of the firm. In other 
words, firms' novelty‐oriented cultural values and foster capabilities (strategic 
sensitivity, collective commitment, and resource fluidity) favors the BMI. But firms 
need to aware of multiple challenges would rise during BMI, which are associated 
with strategy, organization and enterprise management, contracting, risk, culture, 
and operations. Hence organizational values can be considered as a prerequisite 
for BMI but not sufficient to be efficient. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Lines explanation 
                    Variables 
                    Impacting factors 
BMI 
Facilitator
Collaborations 
K.P 
Dynamic 
Firm 
Organizational values 
Competitive advantage 
New revenue 
Pusher
Customer preferences 
Market dynamics 
Technology advancement   
Legislative environment  
Motivator
Fig1 Conceptual framework for service business model innovation 

 
 
Another aspect that influences BMI is firms' dynamic capability. Indeed, these 
design capabilities are proposed as a facilitator of servitization (Roaldsen, 2014), 
allowing a manufacturing firm to develop service offerings that build on resources 
such as knowledge and experience (Beltagui, 2018). Barnett et al. (2013) stated 
that the organizational capabilities necessary for advanced services such as pay-
per-use services convert these capabilities into three core competencies 
(strategizing pay-per-use services, utilizing technologies for pay-per-use services, 
and de-risking pay-per-use services), in order to achieve competitive advantages 
(Gebauer et al., 2017). But this transition to service province involves collaboration 
with informal and formal social institutions for resource acquisitions and service 
delivery.  
In fact, open BMs facilitate the integration and commercialization of external 
resources (Chesbrough and Crowther, 2006; Laursen and Salter, 2006). Von 
Stamm (2004) stated that innovation most often happens when some previously 
unconnected bodies of knowledge converge. He suggested that for an effective 
BMI, firms need external collaboration with other firms and customers. Customer 
knowledge in terms of knowledge about the customer, knowledge from customer 
and knowledge for the customer, contribute to value creation in BMI (Wu et al., 
2013). To accelerate BMI, the firm should identify and develop capabilities and 
resources (Chapman et al., 2002; Kindström and Kowalkowski, 2014) that helps to 
achieve desired objectives like new customer segment, extra revenue, and 
competitive advantage. Some of these are finance, asset, technology, and peoples 
could  significantly enhance the propensity to BMI (Hock et al., 2016). Industry 
level dynamics have a huge impact on BMI. A variable like technological 
innovations (Guo et al., 2017), legislative environment (Berti and Casprini, 2018), 
collaborations  (Chesbrough and Crowther, 2006; Laursen and Salter, 2006) can 
leap BMI. The BMI is influenced by the legislative environment, such as Berti and 
Casprini (2018) to provide an example of how BM of the airport is innovated by 
legislative force. He concluded that the legislative environment would be an 
exogenous driver for BMI. 
3. Methodology 
To answer the study's research question, an illustrative sample of the automotive 
firm, who is a leader in advanced services in the market was organized by 
capturing data from publicly available sources (Oliveira and Roth, 2012). This study 
is qualitative in nature and single case study design. The developed conceptual 
framework was used to explain firms' BM change.  

 
 
"Single-case research designs are a diverse and powerful set of procedures useful 
for demonstrating causal relations among clinical phenomena".  (Riddoch and 
Lennon, 1991)   
Single case analysis can be valuable for the testing of theoretical propositions, 
provided that predictions are relatively precise and measurement error is low 
(Levy, 2008). Our methodological approach was initiated with generating themes 
from the literature (Yin 1994), then these themes were translated into a 
conceptual framework. This conceptual framework was used as a methodological 
tool to review the evolution of a BMI in the automotive industry. 
3.1 Industry background and case selection 
We selected the automotive industry as our empirical background. This industry 
dynamically shifting its core business operations, from pure-product to product-
service business. Majority of car manufacturing firms have integrated customer’s 
services in their core business activities at some extent. As for competitiveness 
rise in the market, firms need to improve activities through excellence and new 
offers. Manufacturing companies, and more precisely the automotive industry, 
endeavor to integrate new service offering to sustain competitive advantage 
(Mahut et al., 2016). European car manufacturers adopting this strategy to 
differentiate their products, improve customer loyalty, generate extra business 
and defend financial margins (Verstrepen et.al., 1999). 
The study especially focused on one car manufacturing firm, BMW AG (Bayerische 
Motoren Werke) German multinational company. To validate our conceptual 
framework, we applied it to firms' digital service known as '‘ConnectedDrive’'. 
BMW firm one of the leaders in the automotive industry offers premium vehicles 
but also provides customer services like financial, on-demand services and 
telematics services to keep its competitive position. The firm radically changed the 
business model to become a customer-centric business. The firm's transformation 
toward customer-centric was begun by introducing telematics services in 1997, 
including the BMW Assist package comprising Concierge Services, as well as the 
up-to-date traffic information service and Intelligent Emergency Call. For the past 
20 years BMW offering telematics services and became dominant in the digital 
service market. The range available for current BMW models includes a personal 
telephone information service, the extended emergency call with automatic 
position finding, Google Local Search, traffic information and internet-based 
services for navigation, communication, and infotainment. In addition, BMW 

 
 
Teleservices include roadside assistance and diagnosis function as well as the 
transmission of all service-related data to the BMW service partner to enable 
preparation of a service appointment. BMW ‘ConnectedDrive’ is currently 
available in 45 countries and there are already over 10 million connected BMW 
vehicles on the world’s roads59. 
3.2 Data extraction and analysis 
The data collection was focused on firms' activities during the design and 
expansion of digital services, known as '‘ConnectedDrive’'. This study depends on 
archival data, in other words, we have used firms' press notes/or information, 
releases, media release documents, and annual reports available in the firm's 
website would represent ‘‘ConnectedDrive’’ services. In total 52 documents were 
collected for the period from 1999-2018 (See Appendix).   
3.3 Data validity  
The study relies on publicly available data to narrate firms' BMI. The author 
believes that these data sources are appropriate and official to track the firm's 
strategic moments and actions, as these documents generated by the firm to 
provide information about their advancement, activities, and engagements. The 
quotes available in these documents are free expressions from firms' 
representatives and more importantly, these expressions are not aimed to answer 
any question, so chances for bias is very low. The Literature is also approved to 
use publicly available data as research data, some of these are: 
"One of the advantages of the public document as data is researcher can identify 
themes that are not visible 'to naked eye'. The publically available data often 
convey important and useful information that a researcher can effectively use as 
data." (Bruce 2011, p.214) 
"Private records such as unsolicited documents are particularly useful for creating 
case studies of life history. Typically, owing to the personal nature of private 
document, the subjects' won definitions of the situation emerge in the private 
records, along with the way they make sense of their daily living routines. 
Precisely, these bites of self-disclose allow researchers to draw out of complete 
                                                 
59 20 years at the cutting edge: BMW ConnectedDrive.  
https://www.automotiveworld.com/news-releases/20-years-cutting-edge-bmw-connecteddrive/ 

 
 
picture of the subjects' perceptions of the life experiences." (Bruce 2011, p.220-
221). 
Hence the authors believe that the data from these sources can be useful to 
examine the firm’s activities. To maintain the richness of the data and authenticity, 
we carefully choose expressions, talks that are emphasized with quoting mark 
only. We also noted spokesman, from whom these quotes are generated/or 
expressed, designations and document number were recorded. In total, 23 key 
persons (see appendix) are found in these documents.  
Atlas ti8 (Computer Assisted/Aided Qualitative Data Analysis Software) was used 
to analyze the data. The data analysis was accomplished as follows as prescribed 
by Bruce (2011, p.267) 
The analysis sequences were as follows: 
- 
All collected documents were transformed into Atlas ti8 application 
- 
Free quotations were generated and coded (First group codes) – Authors 
codes 
- 
Second group codes were created with themes synthesized from the 
literature 
- 
These codes were transformed into factors 
As prescribed above, collected data was transformed into Atlas ti8 application. 
Texts in each document with quote marks, speech marks, inverted commas or 
talking marks were coded as free quotations. This step generated 73 free 
quotations from the documents. Each quotation was carefully examined and 
noted its source, person, job position and time period. Initial codes were prepared 
on free quotations extracted from the press notes.  
The initial coding process was repeated multiple time for better illustration of the 
content that represents a change in the BM. These codes were named based on 
the authors understanding of the data and context. This step has produced 47 
codes. Then, these codes were grouped with themes (emerged from the literature, 
discussed in the previous section). We repeated this process multiple times to 
make sure that codes were truly represented theme context. Then these themes 
grouped into 3 universal themes as Motivators, Pushers, and Facilitators. We 
believe this classification is appropriate to justify the context of BMI. Fig 2 
illustrates the coding process performed in this study. 

 
 
- 
Motivators 
: Inspire the firm to change the business model 
- 
Pushers 
 
: Force the firm to change the business model 
- 
Facilitators 
: Assist the firm to change the business model 
Source: Author’s own classification 
 
          
 
 

 
 
Quotation 
                                                                                     First codes                                    Second codes                         Factors 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Market leader 
BMW Roadside Assistance has always been a leader in premium 
roadside services for the North American customer 
 
Competitive advantage 
Motivators 
We build digital products and services that are meant to help us 
differentiate our core product, the car and generate revenue 
Additional income 
 
Revenue 
“We need to get away from the idea that it will be either us or them 
... We cannot offer clients the perfect experience without help from 
one of these technology companies. Two worlds are colliding here  
Partner’s help 
Collaborations 
We have associates on the spot in the world's leading technology 
centers in Europe, in Japan and on the west coast of the USA.  The 
knowledge and information we gain here goes straight into our 
central Intranet system and is made available to all associates in 
order to promote new ideas and networked thinking 
Information processing 
Knowledge process 
activities 
Facilitators 
The new, free smartphone application will find appeal not only with 
our core enthusiast customer but will also prove a valuable tool for 
any BMW driver requiring the services of BMW Roadside Assistance     
Driver prefers 
Customer preferences 
Pushers 
Both member states and manufacturers have been given enough 
time to prepare infrastructure and technologies so that the eCall will 
start to work immediately to deliver its major benefit — to increase 
the safety of citizens traveling anywhere in Europe. 
 
Legislative force 
 
Legislative environment 
Fig 2 sample coding  

 
 
4. Findings and discussion 
This study developed a conceptual framework for service BMI and validate with 
the servitised firm in the automotive industry. Our intention was to illustrate BMI 
process and factors impacting BMI for ConnectedDrive services by BMW. With this 
view, we analyzed the firm's activities, announcement, key person's expressions 
and views quoted in the documents related to digital services known as 
‘ConnectedDrive’'. We observed three factors impacting BMW’s BMI, namely 
motivators, pushers, and facilitators. 
4.1 Motivators 
Motivators are a set of factors or issues that inspire/motivate the firm to change 
the current business model. Three motivators emerged from the literature are, 
organizational values, additional revenue, and competitive advantage. 
Organizational values refer to the commitment, vision and mission, and 
entrepreneurial culture of the firm. The case firm in our study, who declared 
themselves as customer-centric business pursued a change in business model by 
introducing value-added services (Internet services in the car) in 1997. The firm 
initiated these services as integrated services into the vehicle. The firm declared 
this service integration is part of the organizational value, in other words, they 
want to be a pioneer in technology and first mover. We observed that the BMW 
keep its commitment to offer more customer centric solutions, it has expressed 
organizational commitment as 'we committed', 'as promised, 'being a first mover', 
and 'technology pioneer', this kind of expressions revealed firms' strong 
organizational values and commitment to move to service business province. For 
example a general manager expressed as: 
“What’s most important for us ........ but if we don’t become a customer-centric 
company, then we are destined to fail. The number of digital elements in our 
customers’ lives and in the car continues to increase, and if we don’t understand 
that, we’ve got a problem.” - Online source60 
The company has framed a strategy to transform into a customer-centric company 
by reinforcing its commitment to bring state-of-the-art technology and content to 
customers. Organizational structures, capabilities, and culture can influence a 
                                                 
60 "Why BMW needs to own its customer experience from start to finish" , - Interview by Frederic Lardinois,  July 27,2018 
https://techcrunch.com/2018/07/15/why-bmw-needs-to-own-its-customer-experience-from-start-to-finish/ 

 
 
firm’s ability to innovate in relation to their new business models (Foss and Saebi, 
2015). 
Competitive advantage in another factor in motivator’s category, which strongly 
impacts a firm's business activities. In the manufacturing industry, competitive 
advantage through product innovation is no longer valid. Service -integration is 
becoming a promising strategy to differentiate in the market. Our case firm also 
adopted this strategy to create a competitive advantage for their vehicle by 
integrating digital services. Twenty years in telematics services has provide their 
strategy successful, and BMW became the market leader in the digital service 
market.  The literature strongly argued that integrating service in product 
dominant business could create a competitive advantage for firms (Matthyssens 
and Vandenbempt, 1998; Huber, Herrmann and Morgan, 2001; Salonen, 2011). By 
offering the best technologies and services, the firm continues to extend its 
leading position in the field of digital services. This approach of integrating proven 
technology facilitate the firm's innovation and provides a competitive advantage. 
Next factor in this category is additional revenue. We found that BMW initiated 
telematics services during late 1998. The traditional automotive business is a 
saturated and firm struggle to generate revenue during that time. In service 
integration model firms generates revenue from customer solutions and creates 
new revenue channels sources (Liu et al., 2017). This could one possible 
motivation for BMW to move to the service-based firm. A Vice president 
articulated as: 
“We build digital products and services that are meant to help us differentiate our 
core product, the car and generate revenue.”-Dieter May, VP of Digital Products 
and Services, BMW. 
These services have been offering for more than 5 years, but the firm did not 
reveal exact revenue from these services.  Information from the annual reports 
and bubbling of third-party services in the digital service platform indicate that 
BMW receiving a substantial amount of revenue through these services. One 
evidence found in 2017 annual report, phrased as: 'Higher deferred income from 
Connected Drive and service contracts also had an impact.' (Annual report 2017, 
p.50). Transition to services-centric business became a trendy strategy in matured 
economies and create new revenue sources (Baines et al., 2009; Nagy et al., 2018). 
 
 

 
 
4.2 Pushers  
Refers as forcing driver for change in business activities. The business activities of 
firm’s are forced by four factors such as market dynamics, customer preferences, 
technology advancement, and the legislative environment. The company keeps 
tracking market changes and technology advancements in the automotive 
industry. This profound view on market changes, provide a window to capture the 
opportunity to change business architecture. During the year 2013, firms' sales 
were down 1.7% and the lowest in 18 years in history. This condition leads BME to 
set up personalized digital services called '‘ConnectedDrive’'. This new customized 
service platform offers a bundle of services.  
In our case firm's transformation, we found that the firm's service integration is 
strongly forced by customer preferences. In service-based industry customer turn 
to a dominant position, in another word, they choose what they want or prefer. 
Due to the rise of technological applications in the mobile world, connectivity 
became the central nerve to keep customer relationship. Customers want these 
services in their vehicles. The firm sense this trend in customer preferences and 
successful introduced demanded services. For example, firm collaborations with 
MOG, Stitcher aimed to bring a streaming music application to cars. The changing 
pattern in customer behavior forces the firm to introduce these services to retain 
customers. For example, the driver wants a huge list of music or want to connect 
to social media while driving. In order to sustain in the market, service integration 
became vital for automotive firms. This transformation is forced by customer 
demand, OEMs were very much encouraged to move to services by their 
customers (Baines and Shi, 2014).   
The Legislative environment is another factor that forces the firm to offer some 
specific service in some locations. For example, The EU has passed a law in 2015 
that demand all automobile manufacturers equip all new car types with eCall, 
emergency call services. All new models of passenger cars and light commercial 
vehicles in the EU will have to be equipped with the eCall system as of 31 March 
2018. To comply with this legislative force, the BMW integrated emergency call 
service in their fleets. Literature suggests that BMI is influenced by legislation acts, 
more specifically sustainable service or customer safety services (Antikainen and 
Valkokari, 2016; Zhao et al., 2017; Berti and Casprini, 2018). 
Recent technology advancement has disrupted the traditional business model in 
the automotive market. Development in software and entry of information 

 
 
technology firms in the automotive industry intensified the pressure on 
automotive firms. To sustain in this competitive market and retain its market 
position, the firm made partnerships with Informations technology firms to access 
their knowledge. Along with collaborations, BMW set up Virtual Innovation 
Agency to monitor the latest development in the industry. It is quite an 
unconventional way to collaborate, but BMW initiates this innovative strategy to 
attract solutions and ideas for product and services. To become competitive in the 
market firm have to adopt the latest technology (Foss and Saebi, 2015; Brannon 
and Wiklund, 2016).  
4.3 Facilitators 
Act as lubricants for the business model transformation. These factors immensely 
impact the success or failure of the transformation. These are collaborations, 
technology integration, dynamic capabilities, and knowledge process. From the 
past few years, Information technology firms have entered the automotive 
industry business and offering invoice and out-vehicle service. With their 
dominant technological knowledge and market power, they disrupt BM of the 
automotive industry. So, in this competitive situation, instead of competing for 
each other, the company teamed up with these firms. A board member comment 
as:   
“We need to get away from the idea that it will be either us or them ... We cannot 
offer clients the perfect experience without help from one of these technology 
companies. Two worlds are colliding here. Our world focused on hardware and our 
experience in making complex products, and the world of information technology 
which is intruding more and more into our life." - Peter Schwarzenbauer, Member 
of the Board of Management of BMW AG, MINI, Rolls-Royce, BMW Motorrad, 
Customer Engagement and Digital Business Innovation BMW Group 
As telematics service business seemed to take off, the company started expanding 
service 
integration 
through 
collaborations 
with 
technological 
firms, 
telecommunication providers. For example, the firm has been developing central 
engine control units through cooperation with partners such as Bosch and 
Siemens, but also in-house, creating the control units for the BMW M3 and M5. 
Majority of partners are technological firms, who are quite unusual partners in the 
automotive industry landscape. Instead of developing technology by itself, the 
company opted a collaborative strategy to access partner’s service or provide an 
opportunity to integrate services as third party service suppliers. The key 

 
 
motivation for these collaborations is not just integrated partner's services, but 
firms chose only innovative technology and widely accepted solution such as on-
demand music, navigation services in the market. The firm collaborates with other 
firms for various objects such as market entry, customer knowledge, technology, 
assets (Foss and Saebi, 2015; Sarasini and Langeland, 2015; Ayala et al., 2017). As 
demand for this service rises from the customers, the company became a service 
provider to meet this mart demand. The company set up a venture called 
Projekthaus in 2004, to welcome ideas for products and services. This 
unconventional collaboration with various universities and research centers and 
individuals contributes a huge amount of ideas through an internet portal called 
Virtual Innovation Agency.   
Firm's dynamic capability refers to the firm’s ability to integrate, build, and 
reconfigure internal and external competencies to address rapidly changing 
environments (Teece et al., 2014). They orchestrate BMI through effective 
utilization of firms' resources. Being a proactive and leader in technology 
adaptation, BMW maintains its leadership in the market. BMW responds rapidly 
to market changes and adopts these changes. Vice President of MINI USA and 
Product Manager of BMW Group Apps Platform pointed out that the firm keeps 
the focus on apps developments and listen to customer's voice. This approach 
provides an opportunity to be competitive in the market. The real competitive 
strengths of a firm lie in dynamic capabilities and strategy formulation, 
underpinned by value-enhancing “signature” processes and other VRIN resources 
that the firm and its management can command. High-performance signature 
processes embody positive elements of a company’s unique history, experience, 
culture, and creativity. This makes them relatively hard for rivals to imitate  
(Ghoshal and Gratton, 2002).  
Knowledge process refers to knowledge-related activities such as creation, 
capture, transformation, and use of knowledge and its role is to plan,  implement, 
operate and monitor the knowledge-related activities needed for effective 
intellectual capital management  (Wiig, 1997a). BMW generating a huge amount 
of data about vehicle condition, driver's behavior and user services preferences 
through the digital service platform. This data is processed by the firm and/ or 
supply chain partners to design and develop new services. These (Data collecting) 
processing activities serve the legitimate interests of BMW to comply with the high 
standards placed by customers on existing products and services and to be capable 

 
 
of satisfying customers' future wishes through the development of new products 
and services (Data protection, BMW)61 
"We have associates on the spot in the world's leading technology centers in 
Europe, in Japan and on the west coast of the USA.  The knowledge and 
information we gain here goes straight into our central Intranet system and is 
made available to all associates in order to promote new ideas and networked 
thinking." -Burkhard Göschel62 
This kind of proactive nature would create an opportunity for new services and 
leads firms as the front runner. This knowledge management became a major 
driving force behind the economics of ideas, it will improve firm performance 
(Wiig, 1997b). 
Conclusion 
In conclusion, the study intention is to portray an illustration that represents BMI 
framework with influencing factors and validate with empirical data. We achieved 
this goal by presenting a conceptual framework and applied it as an analytical tool 
to describe BMW’s business model development. This study employs BMW 
‘ConnectedDrive’ services as an empirical setting. The study discloses how BMW 
orchestrates BMI for digital services. BMW's BMI process reveals that in the order 
effective implication of changes in BM, the first firm should clearly understand 
what motives this transformation, how this motivates rises whether internal or 
external sources. But motivation is sufficient to change BM, the firm should keep 
its commitment through the transformation. Second, the firm should focus on 
market dynamics and other external force that influence business landscapes and 
adopt these changes. But the firm should aware that these forces can create 
advantage or risk. Finally, to create efficient BM, the firm should have supported 
by facilitators, as discussed above, market dynamics are dramatically changed, and 
the firm need develop dynamic capabilities to configure business activities 
according to the demand. Firms alone can't create value through their product or 
service, they need to collaborate to create a value constellation. By adopting the 
                                                 
61 Assuran ce of product quality and development of new products (Art. 6(1)(f) GDPR, BMW ConnectedDrive Services – 
Information/Data 
Protection. 
https://www.bmw.gr/content/dam/bmw/marketGR/bmw_gr/topics/fascination-
bmw/Connected%20Drive/Legal_BMW_BMWi_GR_en_5-18.pdf 
62 "Electronics in Automobile Development – a Challenge". Keynote address at the Opening Ceremony of ELECTRONICA 
2002,  p.6, Munich-Riem Fairgrounds, 11 November 2002. 

 
 
latest technology, constant service-integration and customer knowledge could 
transform business activities to more efficient and effective.   
This paper no exception for limitations. This study developed a conceptual 
framework with themes emerged from the literature and validate with signal case 
study only, this is the first limitation. The second limitation is, the study depends 
on secondary data only. Regarding future research directions, this study 
recommends the research communities to validate this framework in a different 
context and with multiple case studies. The key element’s category presented in 
this study should expand further through the empirical analysis. 
References 
Adrodegari, F. et al. (2018) ‘The transition towards service-oriented business 
models’, International Journal of Engineering Business Management, 10, p. 
184797901875446. doi: 10.1177/1847979018754469. 
Ammar, O. and Chereau, P. (2018) ‘Business model innovation from the strategic 
posture perspective: An exploration in manufacturing SMEs’, European 
Business Review. doi: 10.1108/EBR-09-2016-0119. 
Antikainen, M. and Valkokari, K. (2016) ‘A Framework for Sustainable Circular 
Business Model Innovation’, Technology Innovation Management Review2. 
doi: http://timreview.ca/article/1000. 
Anwar, M. (2018) ‘Business Model Innovation And SMEs Performance — Does 
Competitive Advantage Mediate?’, International Journal of Innovation 
Management, 22(07), p. 1850057. doi: 10.1142/S1363919618500573. 
Ayala, N. F. et al. (2017) ‘Knowledge sharing dynamics in service suppliers’ 
involvement for servitization of manufacturing companies’, International 
Journal 
of 
Production 
Economics, 
193, 
pp. 
538–553. 
doi: 
10.1016/j.ijpe.2017.08.019. 
Baines, T. et al. (2009) ‘The servitization of manufacturing: A review of literature 
and reflection on future challenges’, Journal of Manufacturing Technology 
Management, 20(5), pp. 547–567. doi: 10.1108/17410380910960984. 
Baines, T. et al. (2009) ‘Towards an operations strategy for product‐centric 
servitization’, 
International 
Journal 
of 
Operations 
& 
Production 
Management. Edited by A. Wilkinson, 29(5), pp. 494–519. doi: 
10.1108/01443570910953603. 
Baines, T. and Shi, V. (2014) ‘Servitization transformation:drivers, benefit and 
barriers’, Growth through servitization, pp. 34–39. doi: 10.1007/s13398-
014-0173-7.2. 

 
 
Barnett, N. J. et al. (2013) ‘Servitization: Is a Paradigm Shift in the Business Model 
and Service Enterprise Required?’, Strategic Change, 22(3–4), pp. 145–156. 
doi: 10.1002/jsc.1929. 
Bashir, M. and Verma, R. (2017) ‘Why Business Model Innovation Is the New 
Competitive Advantage.’, Journal of Business Strategy, 15(1), pp. 7–17. 
Available 
at: 
http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bth&AN=122924
916&lang=pt-br&site=ehost-live. 
Beltagui, A. (2018a) ‘A design-thinking perspective on capability development: The 
case of new product development for a service business model’, 
International Journal of Operations & Production Management, 38(4), pp. 
1041–1060. doi: 10.1108/IJOPM-11-2016-0661. 
Beltagui, A. (2018b) ‘A design-thinking perspective on capability development’, 
International Journal of Operations & Production Management, 38(4), pp. 
1041–1060. doi: 10.1108/IJOPM-11-2016-0661. 
Berti, C. and Casprini, E. (2018) ‘When regulatory changes become a driver for 
business model innovation’, International Journal of Organizational Analysis, 
26(1), pp. 63–74. doi: 10.1108/IJOA-01-2017-1118. 
Bock, A. J. et al. (2012) ‘The Effects of Culture and Structure on Strategic Flexibility 
during Business Model Innovation’, Journal of Management Studies. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-6486.2011.01030.x. 
Bouwman, H. et al. (2018) ‘The impact of digitalization on business models’, Digital 
Policy, Regulation and Governance, 20(2), pp. 105–124. doi: 10.1108/DPRG-
07-2017-0039. 
Brannon, D. L. and Wiklund, J. (2016) ‘An Analysis of Business Models: Firm 
Characteristics, Innovation and Performance.’, Academy of Entrepreneurship 
Journal, 22(1). 
Bruce L. Berg (2011) Qualitative Research Methods for the social science. 5th edn, 
Sage. 5th edn. 
Cavalcante, S. A. (2013) ‘Understanding the impact of technology on firms’ 
business models’, European Journal of Innovation Management. doi: 
10.1108/EJIM-10-2011-0085. 
Chagas, L. L. (2016) ‘The Global Automotive Industry’, The European Journal of 
Development Research. doi: 10.1057/s41287-016-0056-1. 
Chapman, R. L., Soosay, C. and Kandampully, J. (2002) ‘Innovation in logistic 
services and the new business model: a conceptual framework’, Managing 
Service Quality: An International Journal, 12(6), pp. 358–371. doi: 
10.1108/09604520210451849. 

 
 
Chen, J., Zhang, R. and Wu, D. (2018) ‘Equipment Maintenance Business Model 
Innovation for Sustainable Competitive Advantage in the Digitalization 
Context: Connotation, Types, and Measuring’, Sustainability, 10(11), p. 
3970. doi: 10.3390/su10113970. 
Chesbrough, H. and Crowther, A. K. (2006) ‘Beyond high tech: Early adopters of 
open innovation in other industries’, R and D Management. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-9310.2006.00428.x. 
Chien-Lian, D. (2013) ‘Is It Appropriate to Apply Similar Patterns in Deploying IT-
enabled Service Innovation? An Exploratory Study’, Information Technology 
Journal, 12(18), pp. 4618–4624. doi: 10.3923/itj.2013.4618.4624. 
Corsaro, D. et al. (2012) ‘The impact of network configurations on value 
constellations in business markets - The case of an innovation network’, 
Industrial Marketing Management. doi: 10.1016/j.indmarman.2011.11.017. 
Dellyana, D., Simatupang, T. M. and Dhewanto, W. (2018) ‘Managing the actor’s 
network, business model and business model innovation to increase value 
of the multidimensional value networks’, International Journal of Business 
and Society. 
Foss, N. J. and Saebi, T. (2015) BusinesBusiness Model Innovation: The 
Organizational Dimension. Edited by N. J. F. and T. Saebi. Oxford: Oxford 
University Press. doi: 10.1177/0956797611414725. 
Foss, N. J. and Saebi, T. (2017) ‘Fifteen Years of Research on Business Model 
Innovation’, 
Journal 
of 
Management, 
43(1), 
pp. 
200–227. 
doi: 
10.1177/0149206316675927. 
Gambardella, A. and McGahan, A. M. (2010) ‘Business-Model Innovation: General 
Purpose Technologies and their Implications for Industry Structure’, Long 
Range Planning, 43(2–3), pp. 262–271. doi: 10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.009. 
Gebauer, H. et al. (2017) ‘Organizational capabilities for pay-per-use services in 
product-oriented 
companies’, 
International 
Journal 
of 
Production 
Economics, 192, pp. 157–168. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpe.2016.12.007. 
Ghoshal, S. and Gratton, L. (2002) ‘Integrating the Enterprise’, MIT Sloan 
Management Review. doi: Article. 
Guo, H. et al. (2017) ‘Opportunity recognition and SME performance: the 
mediating effect of business model innovation’, R&D Management, 47(3), 
pp. 431–442. doi: 10.1111/radm.12219. 
Hacklin, F., Björkdahl, J. and Wallin, M. W. (2018) ‘Strategies for business model 
innovation: How firms reel in migrating value’, Long Range Planning. doi: 
10.1016/j.lrp.2017.06.009. 
Heikkilä, M. and Heikkilä, J. (2013) ‘Collaborative business model innovation 
process for networked services’, in Lecture Notes in Business Information 
Processing. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-39808-7-12. 

 
 
Hock, M., Clauss, T. and Schulz, E. (2016) ‘The impact of organizational culture on 
a firm’s capability to innovate the business model’, R and D Management. 
doi: 10.1111/radm.12153. 
Huber, F., Herrmann, A. and Morgan, R. E. (2001) ‘Gaining competitive advantage 
through customer value oriented management’, Journal of Consumer 
Marketing. doi: 10.1108/07363760110365796. 
Iglesias, S. et al. (2017) ‘La innovación en la Pyme : Barreras y facilitadores 
Innovation in Smes : Barriers and facilitators’, Estudios Regionales, 
110(June), pp. 99–131. 
Jetter, M., Satzger, G. and Neus, A. (2009) ‘Technological Innovation and Its Impact 
on Business Model, Organization and Corporate Culture – IBM’s 
Transformation into a Globally Integrated, Service-Oriented Enterprise’, 
Business & Information Systems Engineering. doi: 10.1007/s12599-008-
0002-7. 
Kindström, D. (2010) ‘Towards a service-based business model - Key aspects for 
future competitive advantage’, European Management Journal, 28(6), pp. 
479–490. doi: 10.1016/j.emj.2010.07.002. 
Kindström, D. and Kowalkowski, C. (2014) ‘Service innovation in product-centric 
firms: A multidimensional business model perspective’, Journal of Business 
and Industrial Marketing. doi: 10.1108/JBIM-08-2013-0165. 
Laursen, K. and Salter, A. (2006) ‘Open for innovation: The role of openness in 
explaining innovation performance among U.K. manufacturing firms’, 
Strategic Management Journal. doi: 10.1002/smj.507. 
Leih, S., Linden, G. and Teece, D. J. (2014) ‘Business Model Innovation and 
Organizational Design: a Dynamic Capabilities Perspective’, Business Model 
Innovation. doi: 10.1093/acprof. 
Levy, J. S. (2008) ‘Case studies: Types, designs, and logics of inference’, Conflict 
Management and Peace Science. doi: 10.1080/07388940701860318. 
Liu, G. et al. (2017) ‘Business Model Innovation and Its Drivers in the Chinese 
Construction Industry during the Shift to Modular Prefabrication’, Journal of 
Management 
in 
Engineering, 
33(3), 
p. 
04016051. 
doi: 
10.1061/(ASCE)ME.1943-5479.0000501. 
Lloyd, A. D. (2001) ‘Technology, Innovation and Competitive Advantage: Making a 
Business Process Perspective Part of Investment Appraisal.’, International 
Journal of Innovation Management. doi: 10.1142/S1363919601000415. 
Lyytinen and Rose (2003) ‘The Disruptive Nature of Information Technology 
Innovations: The Case of Internet Computing in Systems Development 
Organizations’, MIS Quarterly, 27(4), p. 557. doi: 10.2307/30036549. 

 
 
Mahut, F. et al. (2016) ‘Product-Service Systems for servitization of the automotive 
industry: a literature review’, International Journal of Production Research. 
Taylor 
& 
Francis, 
In 
Press(November), 
pp. 
1–19. 
doi: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2016.1252864. 
Martinez, V. et al. (2015) ‘Exploring the journey to services’, International Journal 
of Production Economics. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpe.2016.12.030. 
Matthyssens, P. and Vandenbempt, K. (1998) ‘Creating competitive advantage in 
industrial services’, Journal of Business and Industrial Marketing. doi: 
10.1108/08858629810226654. 
Mitchell, D. and Coles, C. (2003) ‘The ultimate competitive advantage of 
continuing business model innovation’, Journal of Business Strategy, 24(5), 
pp. 15–21. doi: 10.1108/02756660310504924. 
Nagy, S., Mansour, H. and Presser, M. (2018) ‘Case study of IoT as a driver for 
business model innovation in the wind industry’, in 2018 IEEE 4th World 
Forum on Internet of Things (WF-IoT). IEEE, pp. 74–79. doi: 10.1109/WF-
IoT.2018.8355222. 
Oliveira, P. and Roth, A. V. (2012) ‘The influence of service orientation on B2B e-
service capabilities: An empirical investigation’, Production and Operations 
Management. doi: 10.1111/j.1937-5956.2011.01256.x. 
Peteraf, M. A. and Barney, J. B. (2003) ‘Unraveling the resource-based tangle’, 
Managerial and Decision Economics. doi: 10.1002/mde.1126. 
Pisano, G. (2006) ‘Profiting from innovation and the intellectual property 
revolution’, 
Research 
Policy, 
35(8), 
pp. 
1122–1130. 
doi: 
10.1016/j.respol.2006.09.008. 
Riddoch, J. and Lennon, S. (1991) ‘Single case Research designs’, Physiotherapy 
Theory and Practice. doi: 10.3109/09593989109106945. 
Roaldsen, I. (2014) ‘Dynamic capabilities as drivers of business model innovation - 
from the perspective of SMEs in mature industries’, International Journal of 
Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management, 18(4), p. 349. doi: 
10.1504/IJEIM.2014.064212. 
Salonen, A. (2011) ‘Service transition strategies of industrial manufacturers’, 
Industrial Marketing Management. doi: 10.1016/j.indmarman.2011.05.005. 
Sarasini, S. and Langeland, O. (2015) ‘Business model innovation for car sharing 
and sustainable urban mobility’, Nordic Energy Research, pp. 1–28. Available 
at: http://www.nordicenergy.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/IST-2017-
Sarasini-Langeland.pdf. 
Spieth, P., Schneckenberg, D. and Ricart, J. E. (2014) ‘Business model innovation - 
state of the art and future challenges for the field’, R and D Management. 
doi: 10.1111/radm.12071. 

 
 
von Stamm, B. (2004) ‘Collaboration with other firms and customers: innovation’s 
secret weapon’, Strategy & Leadership, 32(3), pp. 16–20. doi: 
10.1108/10878510410535727. 
Stieglitz, N. and Foss, N. J. (2009) ‘Opportunities and new business models: 
Transaction cost and property rights perspectives on entrepreneurship’, 
Advances 
in 
Strategic 
Management. 
doi: 
10.1108/S0742-
3322(2009)0000026005. 
Sund, K. J., Villarroel, J. A. and Bogers, M. (2014) ‘Organizational Aspects of 
Business Model Innovation: The Case of the European Postal Industry’, 
Academy of Management Proceedings. doi: 10.5465/AMBPP.2014.126. 
Teece, D. J. (2010) ‘Business models, business strategy and innovation’, Long 
Range Planning, 43(2–3), pp. 172–194. doi: 10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.003. 
Vandermerwe, S. and Rada, J. (1988) ‘Servitization of business: Adding value by 
adding services’, European Management Journal, 6(4), pp. 314–324. doi: 
10.1016/0263-2373(88)90033-3. 
Verstrepen, S., Deschoolmeester, D. and Berg, R. J. van den (1999) ‘Servitization in 
the automotive sector : creating value and competitive advantage through 
service after sales’, in Global Production Management, p. 608. doi: 
10.1007/978-0-387-35569-6. 
Wiig, K. M. (1997a) ‘Integrating intellectual capital and knowledge management’, 
Long Range Planning. doi: 10.1016/S0024-6301(97)90256-9. 
Wiig, K. M. (1997b) ‘Knowledge Management: An Introduction and Perspective’, 
Journal of Knowledge Management. doi: 10.1108/13673279710800682. 
Witell, L. and Löfgren, M. (2013) ‘From service for free to service for fee: business 
model innovation in manufacturing firms’, Journal of Service Management. 
Edited by K. Heinonen, Maria Holmlund, Tore Stra, 24(5), pp. 520–533. doi: 
10.1108/JOSM-04-2013-0103. 
Wu, J., Guo, B. and Shi, Y. (2013) ‘Customer knowledge management and IT-
enabled business model innovation: A conceptual framework and a case 
study from China’, European Management Journal, 31(4), pp. 359–372. doi: 
10.1016/j.emj.2013.02.001. 
Zhao, X. et al. (2017) ‘Critical factors influencing business model innovation for 
sustainable 
buildings’, 
Sustainability 
(Switzerland). 
doi: 
10.3390/su10010033. 
Zhu, H., Zhang, M. Y. and Lin, W. (2017) ‘The fit between business model 
innovation and demand-side dynamics: catch-up of China’s latecomer 
mobile handset manufacturers’, Innovation: Management, Policy and 
Practice. doi: 10.1080/14479338.2016.1275979. 

 
 
Zott, C., Amit, R. and Massa, L. (2011) ‘The business model: Recent developments 
and 
future 
research’, 
Journal 
of 
Management. 
doi: 
10.1177/0149206311406265. 
 
Appendix 
Summary of data sources and year 
Data source (BMW Group) 
Released 
year 
Number 
 
 
 
 
 
Press 
releases/ 
Information 
Archives 
1999 
1 
2000 
3 
2001 
3 
2002 
2 
2003 
1 
2006 
1 
2009 
2 
2010 
4 
2011 
5 
2012 
2 
2013 
4 
2015  
2 
2016 
4 
2017 
1 
2018 
3 
Media release 
2018 
1 
2008 
1 
Keynote 
address 
at 
ELECTRONICA63 
2002 
1 
Media information 
2002 
2 
2009 
1 
2010 
2 
2011 
2 
2015 
1 
Annual report 
2017 
1 
2000 
1 
Total 
52 
 
                                                 
63 63 Dr. Burkhard Göschel , BMW Group Board Member Development and Purchasing- "Electronics in 
Automobile Development – a Challenge" - Keynote address at the Opening Ceremony of ELECTRONICA 
2002, Munich-Riem Fairgrounds, 11 November 2002 

 
 
Summary of job roles and location 
S.NO JOB TITLE 
FIRM/LOCATION 
1 
Board member for Development and 
Procurement 
BMW 
2 
Board member in charge of the Mini 
brand and digital services 
BMW 
3 
CEO 
MOG 
4 
CEO 
Stitcher 
5 
CEO and President   
ATX Technologies 
6 
CEO and President of Cross-Country 
Automotive Services  
BMW 
7 
Department 
Manager 
– 
Product 
Requirements and Development 
BMW North America 
8 
Director  
BMW Group Vehicle Research 
9 
Director 
BMW Group Technology Office 
10 
Director 
William 
Lehman 
Injury 
Research Centre, Miami 
11 
Executive Vice President of Business 
Development   
Pandora 
12 
Head of the BMW AppCenter 
BMW 
13 
Head of the International BMW  
BMW 
14 
Head of Traffic Technology and Traffic 
Management  
BMW Group 
15 
Member for the BMW Group in  
Steering committee of the Ko-
FAS initiative 
16 
Product Manager 
BMW Group Apps 
17 
Senior development engineer 
BMW Group Technology Office 
USA 
18 
Senior Vice President Digital Services 
and Business Models  
BMW Group 
19 
SVP of Business Development at  
MOG 
20 
Vice President  
MINI USA 
21 
Vice President & General manager 
Motorola 
Telematics 
Communications Group 
22 
Vice President of digital services 
BMW 
23 
Vice President of Engineering and 
Aftersales  
BMW North America 
 
Summary of Documents 
 
S.No 
Document title 
Released data 

 
 
 
1 
BMW IS FIRST TO OFFER PRACTICAL 
AUTOMOBILE INTERNET CONNECTION 
28.09.1999 
2 
BMW IS FIRST TO OFFER FULLY INTEGRATED 
DIGITAL PORTABLE PHONE AS STANDARD 
19.04.2000 
3 
BMW Group to Introduce Digital Satellite 
Radio 
06.01.2000 
4 
The Focus Remains on the Driver: BMW Group 
Presents Telematics Strategies for Today and 
Tomorrow 
08.11.2000 
5 
BMW and Motorola Launch Integrated Dual 
Band, Tri-Mode Digital Phone System 
Now Standard on Model Year 2001 BMW 7 
Series 
18.01.2001 
6 
BMW Telematics Offensive: Networking of 
individual mobility through partnership with 
Vodafone Passo 
13.02.2001  
7 
BMW OF NORTH AMERICA TO LAUNCH NEXT 
GENERATION TELEMATICS SERVICES 
14.08.2001 
8 
BMW ADDS CONCIERGE SERVICES TO 
TELEMATICS PORTFOLIO 
01.11.2002 
9 
ConnectedDrive: The virtual co-driver with a 
seventh sense 
14.10.2002 
10 
Seeing More at the Wheel: BMW Presents 
Solutions for Extra Safety and Comfort 
14.10.2002 
11 
Electronics in Automobile Development – a 
Challenge 
11.11.2002 
12 
BMW Group Presents Intelligent Driver 
Assistance Systems ConnectedDrive Concept 
maintains the driver's responsibility 
15.11.2002 
13 
TALKING CARS FOR LESS CONGESTION – THE 
FUTURE OF TELEMATICS 
25..09.2003 
14 
BMW LEADS THE INDUSTRY IN HIGH-TECH 
AUTO FEATURES ACCORDING TO THE 
TELEMATICS RESEARCH GROUP 
21.06.2006 
15 
BMW presents open source Telematics 
Protocol. 
08.01.2008 
16 
BMW OFFERS REAL-TIME FUEL PRICES, 
WEATHER AND BLOOMBERG STOCK INDICES. 
30.06.2009 
17 
One step closer to accident-free mobility 
18.09.2009 
18 
BMW ASSISTTM EXTENDS AUTOMATIC 
COLLISION NOTIFICATION TO 
INCLUDE “RISK OF SEVERE INJURY” 
ALGORITHM. 
11.01.2009 
19 
Pathfinder from BMW 
15.06.2010 

 
 
20 
BMW extends office functions to include 
incoming e-mail with voice output 
24.06.2010 
21 
BMW Group supports new iPod Out feature 
for iPhone and iPod touch 
07.07.2010 
22 
A LINK TO THE FUTURE: MINI CONNECTED 
07.10.2010 
23 
BMW Roadside Assistance Introduces 
Smartphone Application Advanced 
functionality enables customized experience 
08.04.2010 
24 
BMW WINS THREE “TELEMATICS UPDATE” 
AWARDS BMW ConnectedDrive receives 
critical acclaim for enhancements to safety, 
convenience 
10.06.2010 
25 
BMW Online Gets Updated User Experience 
01.12.2011 
26 
BMW Vision ConnectedDrive 
16.02.2011 
27 
Pandora® Now Available for Model Year 2011 
BMW Vehicles 
28.04.2011 
28 
MINI USA PARTNERS WITH MOG TO DEVELOP 
A NEW MINI CONNECTED 
APPROVED APP 
10.03.2011 
29 
BMW Head-Up Display: Precision as featured 
in a fighter jet. 
28.10.2011 
30 
MINI LAUNCHES THE NEXT WAVE OF IN-CAR 
ENTERTAINMENT WITH MOG 
11.11.2011 
31 
BMW Announces MOG App 
15.11.11 
32 
THE NEWEST PERSONALIZED RADIO APP FOR 
BMW AND MINI DRIVERS: ON-DEMAND 
ENTERTAINMENT WITH STITCHER SMART 
RADIO. 
06.08.2012 
33 
BMW ConnectedDrive 2012 A new milestone 
in networked mobility 
13.07.2012 
34 
BMW Group Partners with Stitcher 
12.03.12 
35 
BMW Announces Four New App Integrations 
27.03.2013 
36 
BMW ConnectedDrive In touch with your 
world 
27.03.2013 
37 
BMW ConnectedDrive for 2014 Model Year 
05.06.2013 
38 
BMW ConnectedDrive Wins 2013 Telematics 
Update Award 
11.06.2013 
39 
The New My BMW ConnectedDrive Portal and 
ConnectedDrive Store1. The exclusive portal 
for BMW ConnectedDrive customers. 
19.02.2015 
40 
BMW ConnectedDrive develops intelligent 
parking search solutions. 
03.06.2015 
41 
BMW ConnectedDrive and BMW i Remote app 
24.04.2015  
42 
BMW Announces First App Integrations For 
Android Devices 
22.03.2016 

 
 
43 
BMW Connected North America – Your 
Personal Mobility Companion makes world 
debut at Microsoft Build 2016, powered by 
Open Mobility Cloud built on Microsoft Azure 
31.03.2016 
44 
GoPro Integration for BMW M Laptimer App 
14.04.2016 
45 
BMW Connected – Your Personal Mobility 
Companion gets an important update, plus 
availability for Alexa and Android devices 
starting in October 
06.10.2016 
46 
Digital lifestyle at the BMW Group: Seamless 
in-car integration of Amazon Alexa 
27.09.2017 
47 
BMW ConnectedDrive Services – 
Information/Data Protection 
01.05.2018 
48 
Hey BMW, now we’re talking!- BMWs Are 
About To Get a Personality with Introduction 
of New Sophisticated In-Car Intelligent 
Personal Assistant 
06.06.2018 
49 
BMW Brings Spotify Into the Car 
14.11.2018 
50 
BMW Unveils the ConnectedDrive Store, 
Allowing U.S. Customers to Purchase Services 
through BMW Vehicles 
14.12.2018 
51 
Annual report 
2017 
52 
Annual report 
2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Impact of Values on Strategic 
Decision-Making with Respect to 
Business Model Design 
The Case of Ecosia 
 
Kiril Ivanov* 
 
*E-mail:  k.ivanov@uxberlin.com 
 
Abstract  
This paper aims at exploring the role that explicit corporate values have in 
directing a company’s strategic decision-making (SDM) with respect to managing 
its business model design. To inquire about this relationship, it focuses on the Ger- 
man Internet start-up, Ecosia, using an exploratory case study method and 
interpreting qualitative data from two expert interviews. The empirical data is 
analysed and compared in relation with the theoretical framework of values-based 
innovation management (Breuer & Lüdeke-Freund, 2017), which offers a recently 
developed foundation for understanding the directive role of values for strategic 
management and business model innovation. The interpretation of the obtained 
results indicated that the corporate values of Ecosia influence the company’s SDM 
when it comes to business model design, particularly in terms of management of 
partnerships, product development and promotion strategies, the use of physical 
resources and HR management. Thus, the case of Ecosia exemplifies the 
assumptions of the values-based management framework and contributes to 
exploring their validity in practice. 
Keywords 
values, business model, strategic decision-making 
 
 

 
 
1. Introduction 
The importance of values for decision-making and as determinants of behaviour 
has been investigated and widely discussed in the literature (e.g. Fritzsche & Oz, 
2007; Poortinga et al., 2004; Verplanken & Holland, 2002). Their role in business 
has also been recognized in various publications and empirical studies (e.g. Bart & 
Pujari, 2007; Freeman & Auster, 2015; Lee, Fabish & McGaw, 2005). Consequently, 
“financial leaders have come further in understanding the relationships between 
values and performance, that they are doing a better job of exploiting them, and 
that their more comprehensive approach to values is associated with superior 
financial performance” (Lee, Fabish & McGaw, 2005: p.14). But while companies 
may recognize the importance of values for avoiding risks, their potential for 
unfolding opportunities has yet to be acknowledged (ibid). Although the 
determining potential of a company’s values for its strategic decision-making 
(SDM) and performance is considered as a state-of-the-art topic, still there is a 
scarcity of studies that inquire about it. The present paper aims at addressing this 
gap in the literature by exploring the role that explicit values developed by an 
organization have for its SDM with respect to managing business model de- sign. 
To investigate this relationship, it explores the case of the Berlin based Internet 
start-up Ecosia and its six core values.  
The case of Ecosia provides an example of a successful start-up company, which 
introduces an innovative business model based on values, and thus serves as a role 
model for entrepreneurs. The values of sustainability and integrity upon which 
Ecoisa builds its business are of increasing importance in the context of today's 
social and environmental challenges. As we are losing 18.7 million acres of forests 
annually, equivalent to 27 soccer fields every minute, forest and land- scape 
restoration become one of the cheapest and most effective ways to mitigate and 
even reverse the progression of global warming (WWF, 2018). In addition, 
reforestation can prevent erosion, create a stable microclimate for other crops, 
restore the water systems and provide new means of income for local 
communities (Ecosia Knowledge Base, 2018a). Ecosia’s investments capitalize on 
these opportunities for action towards sustainable development, addressing 
major concerns for the Earth’s ecological stability as well as the pressing needs of 
people living in areas where deforestation is widely spread.  
The present study applies the theoretical perspective of the values-based 
innovation management framework (Breuer & Lüdeke-Freund, 2017), which 
offers a recently developed foundation for understanding the directive role of 
values for strategic management and business model innovation. It employs 

 
 
qualitative methods within an exploratory case study methodology (Yin, 2017), as 
a preferred method for investigating contemporary phenomenon, when there is 
little control over the research environment and a lack of detailed preliminary re- 
search (ibid). The two expert interviews that served as main sources of empirical 
data were transcribed and analysed using an evaluation strategy proposed by 
Meuser and Nagel (2009). The processes of open and axial coding, derived from 
grounded theory (Strauss & Corbin, 1990) were used to support the interview 
analyses. The collected empirical data was then analysed and compared in relation 
with the theoretical framework of values-based management.  
The interpretation of the obtained results indicated that the corporate values of 
Ecosia influence the company’s SDM when it comes to business model design, 
particularly in terms of management of partnerships, product development and 
promotion strategies, the use of physical resources and HR management. 
2. Ecosia - the search engine that plants trees 
Ecosia is an Internet start-up company that helps to finance forest restoration 
projects around the world. Founded in 2009, Ecosia was not the first search engine 
that supports tree planting initiatives. For instance, Treehoo (Heimbuch, 2018) 
and EcoSearch (Bright Hub, 2010) were already putting this idea into practice. But 
while the former two platforms have not managed to establish a strong user base 
and achieve a steady environmental impact, Ecosia, with its over 7 million active 
users, is on the verge to become a worldwide trend.  
Like most search engines, Ecosia displays so-called EcoAds along with regular 
search results. Those ads as well as Ecosia’s search results are provided by Bing, a 
search engine that holds one of the largest market shares in the industry. When 
users click on the ads supplied by Bing, Ecosia generates income paid out by Bing's 
advertisers. With the accumulated profit Ecosia sustains the company’s resources 
and capabilities, pays out salaries and promotes its market presence. The green 
search engine then invests a 100% of its surplus income to finance reforestation 
projects (Ecosia Knowledge Base, 2018b). To keep its users informed about the 
company’s earnings and expenditures, Ecosia follows a policy of full financial 
transparency and publishes a monthly business report.  
The German start-up is driven by the vision to “cultivate a world where all humans 
live together compassionately and in balance with nature”. The mission statement 
of Ecosia affirms that the company creates solutions which enable users to 

 
 
“behave in a way that is good for all people and the planet”, it reaches “massive 
amounts of people in order to cultivate positive change on a global scale” and it 
uses its profits to “restore entire landscapes and enable impoverished 
communities to live a good life in balance with nature” (Ecosia's Vision & Mission, 
2019). As an extension of its vision and mission statements the organization has 
set the ambitious goal to plant 1 billion trees until 2020. 
3. Theoretical background 
Values-based innovation management is a theoretical framework developed by 
Breuer and Lüdeke-Freund (2017) to address the potential of values in guiding 
business innovation and its management. It explores the directive role of values, 
defined as notions of the desirable, as core drivers of corporate value creation and 
renewal. According to the values-based view on management, values or normative 
orientations, that underly an organization’s attitudes and behaviours, are pursued 
by all companies engaged in business activities. But while some companies 
explicitly define the values they strive for as part of their mission, vision or purpose 
statements, others omit them as only implicitly present within their corporate 
operations and practices. By setting up values-based goals and visions at the base 
of their commercial undertakings, entrepreneurs can go beyond mere economic 
interests and obsessive efforts to achieve competitive advantage. This allows the 
development of businesses that are simultaneously financially effective and 
strongly committed to societal progress, by addressing social or environmental 
goals.  
In its essence the values-based framework differs from other mainstream 
approaches to creating social and environmental value, such as corporate social 
responsibility or creating shared value (Porter & Kramer, 2011). While these 
prominent concepts consider addressing values of relevant stakeholders and the 
society for either ethical or strategic purposes, values-based innovation 
management incorporates values into the company’s core objectives.  
The framework elaborates upon the Integrated Management Concept (IMC) 
(Bleicher, 1994) “a system-theoretical perspective that sees organisations as 
complex systems consisting of sub-systems, interrelations, and functions” (Breuer 
& Lüdeke-Freund, 2017: p.39). By adopting the outlook of IMC, values-based 
management differentiates between three major dimensions of management: 
normative, strategic and instrumental.  

 
 
Values-based normative management defines the “overarching values, identity 
and aspirations of an organisation and codifies the norms, principles and strategies 
for their realisation” (ibid, p.150). According to the IMC “because of its constitutive 
role, normative management functions as the basis for all activities of 
management” (Bleicher, 1994: p.141). By exploring, identifying and codifying the 
values of internal and external stakeholders, values-based normative 
management aims at establishing the company’s corresponding identity and 
aspirations. Furthermore, it motivates inter-organizational collaboration through 
the formation of values-based networks, which focus on overarching goals, such 
as sustainability.  
Values-based strategic management “deals with identifying, achieving, and 
exploiting competitive market positions; it translates visions and missions from 
the normative dimension into strategic programmes and orientation for 
valuecreating activities in the instrumental dimension” (Breuer & Lüdeke-Freund, 
2017: p.123). In other words, while normative management functions as a 
foundation for activities, it is the task of strategic management to direct them 
accordingly (Bleicher, 1994: p.143).  
The instrumental management dimension is characterized by the processes and 
tasks that apply in practice the realisation of organizational norms and strategies. 
Its main focus is the optimization of process efficiency and social cooperation in 
order to enhance performance, both within the organisation and with external 
stakeholders (Breuer & Lüdeke-Freund, 2017: p.42). 
3.1 Research questions 
The values-based view on management suggests that values have a directive 
potential that determines an organization’s objectives and thus drives its SDM. 
The theory argues that explicit corporate values (e.g. defined by the organization’s 
normative statements) as well as implicit values (e.g. originating within its 
organizational culture) can both be integrated on the level of strategic 
management and guide SDM and business model innovation. 
By combining its search engine product with tree planting Ecosia’s business 
pursues values of sustainability and social responsibility. Since a company’s 
business model design constitutes of various components that can be addressed 
through values-based management this paper aims to explore the impact of 
Ecosia’s corporate values on the company’s SDM with respect to managing specific 
and most fundamental components of its business model design (i.e. partners, 

 
 
capabilities and touchpoints). Due to time and resource limitations a broader 
inquiry that incorporates all components of Ecosia’s business model was beyond 
the scope of this study. To differentiate the three specified components, 
mentioned above, the study adopted a component model presented in the 
Business Innovation Kit (Breuer, 2014), a toolkit which aims to facilitate 
exploration and evaluation of values-based business models. For a detailed 
overview of the individual components presented in the Business Innovation Kit 
the reader is referred to Breuer (2014) and Breuer & Lüdeke-Freund (2017). 
Based on the theoretical discussion presented above, the following research 
questions were derived for the purpose of this exploratory study: 
Research question #1. How do Ecosia’s values impact the company’s SDM with 
respect to managing partner relations?  
Research question #2. How do Ecosia’s values impact the company’s SDM with 
respect to managing corporate capabilities?  
Research question #3. How do Ecosia’s values impact the company’s SDM with 
respect to managing customer touchpoints? 
4. Method 
4.1 Research design 
The research design employed in this paper uses qualitative methods and is based 
on the case study methodology (Yin, 2017). It explores the impact of values within 
a single organization, without formulating a predefined hypothesis, thus the 
exploratory case study method is found as most suitable. To conduct a case study, 
it is required to define its units of analysis. The units of analysis stem from the 
propositions and research questions that determine the purpose of the research. 
They represent the specific information being sought for, i.e. “the case in a case 
study” (ibid, 241). Furthermore, embedded units of analysis are lesser 
components of the main units of analysis. In this study the main units of analysis 
are: (1) Ecosia’s corporate values and the (2) SDM of the company with respect to 
(3) business model design. Further embedded units of analysis correspond to the 
core values explicitly defined by the company and its decision-making with respect 
to specific business model components (i.e. partners, capabilities and 
touchpoints). The following paragraphs provide a description of the main units of 
analysis along with a corresponding theoretical discourse. 

 
 
4.1.1 Corporate values 
In recent years, definitions of formal statements, that outline corporate values, 
have become a widely adopted practice by companies around the world. 
Increasingly, business leaders put an emphasis on ethical behaviour, honesty, 
integrity and social concerns as top issues on their companies’ agendas (Lee, 
Fabish & McGaw, 2005: p.1). Companies start to realize the essential role of values 
as definitions of what they care about and strive for in their everyday activities. In 
cases when leaders are faced with difficult decisions “where they have to choose 
between multiple courses of action that each seem right from a certain 
perspective”, corporate values can be used to make choices that are “maximally 
beneficial to all stakeholders” (Mackey & Sisodia, 2015) Thus, values-driven 
management is emerging as a notion of guiding corporate action and SDM.  
Ecosia has defined six core values that represent its corporate identity. These six 
values are specified as follows: 
“Impact: Think big and prioritize what will have the greatest impact.”  
“Integrity: Be honest, authentic and open.”  
“Sustainability: Seek long term, sustainable solutions.”  
“Leadership: Lead the way to a sustainable future.”  
“User focus: Honour the user.” 
“Happiness: Make it an enjoyable ride.” 
For a more comprehensive description of Ecosia’s values the reader is referred to 
the company’s Mission & Core Values statement (Ecosia's Core Values, 2019). 
4.1.2 Corporate SDM 
Management theorists agree that decision-making has crucial significance as one 
of the most important management activities (Drucker, 2010; Mintzberg, 2008). 
SDM refers to chosen alternatives “that affect key factors which determine the 
success of an organization's strategy” (BusinessDictionary.com, 2019). Strategic 
decisions are viewed as a component of strategic management which can be 

 
 
defined as “the process of specifying the organization’s objectives, developing 
policies and plans to achieve these objectives, and allocating resources to 
implement the policies and plans to achieve the organization's objectives” (Ayitey, 
2010: p.7). Furthermore, strategic management “deals with the development of 
the potential resources and capabilities a company needs to successfully engage 
with its environment and differentiate itself from its competitors” (Breuer & 
Lüdeke-Freund, 2017: p.65). In order to implement these objectives of strategic 
management, managers strive to align strategic decisions with their company’s 
goals. 
4.1.3 SDM with respect to business model design 
The literature provides numerous definitions of the business model concept. In 
general terms a business model describes “how people and organisations do what 
they consider worth being done, and how they intend to receive something in 
return, i.e. business models are about the creation, delivery, and capture of value” 
(ibid, p.121). The values-based management framework emphasizes that business 
models serve as a major lever of guiding innovation activities on the dimension of 
strategic management (ibid, p.122). Other scholars have also investigated and 
emphasised the relatedness between business models and corporate strategy 
(e.g. Morris et al., 2005; Casadesus-Masanell & Ricart, 2010; Teece, 2010). Hacklin 
and Wallnöfer (2012: pp.167-168) argue that on a macro-level, the business model 
can be described as a simplified description or reflection of a firm’s strategy 
describing its overall value creation and capturing logic. In this sense, business 
models can be regarded as cognitive frameworks or tools, that offer a template 
for integrating and organizing strategically relevant elements, in order to create 
sustainable competitive advantage (ibid). 
4.2 Procedure 
The study employed qualitative methods, such as expert interviews as well as 
analysis of secondary material, such as internal documents, publications, previous 
studies and observations. Two semi-structured expert interviews were conducted 
at Ecosia’s Berlin office, in January and July 2018. Different interview guides were 
developed in order to address the specific competences of the two respondents. 
Both interviews were fully transcribed. 
The expert interview approach was chosen with the purpose of gaining a better 
understanding of the topic and its context, collecting specific examples and stories 
that serve to illustrate the logic underlying Ecosia’s SDM (with regard to the 

 
 
research questions) and finding indications for follow-up research activities. 
According to Yin (2014) interviews are one of the most important sources of case 
study information. Furthermore, the expert interview is a distinct method of 
qualitative empirical research designed to explore expert knowledge with regard 
to reconstructing social situations or processes (Meuser & Nagel, 2009). 
The first interviewee selected to participate in the research was P. Baumann, head 
of product at Ecosia. The head of product is responsible for the development and 
management of the product based on the organizational strategies and vision and 
in close, cross-functional collaboration with all relevant departments (Cleverism, 
2018). As one of the main responsible persons for the development and market 
presence of Ecosia as a product, Baumann is significantly involved in the 
company’s SDM with regard to the management of business model components, 
such as touchpoints, stakeholder segments and capabilities. Therefore, his 
expertise in relation to the research question can be regarded as subject matter 
know-how (cf. Froschauer & Lueger, 2009), i.e. “based primarily on experience 
drawn from participating in activities in the field of research” (ibid, p.221). 
The second interview was conducted with A. Bainger, holding the position of 
happiness officer at Ecosia. Her position has a strong focus on analysing and 
managing employees' happiness in parallel with traditional HR management 
activities. Since Ecosia’s organizational structure does not have a dedicated HR 
role, Bainger holds many of the responsibilities related to employee management. 
For this reason, she was selected as the most relevant (expert) interviewee, 
possessing subject matter know-how, concerned with Ecosia’s management of 
HR, as part of the company’s capabilities business model component. 
In order to ensure its quality, validity and scholarly value, the research aimed at 
complying with core criteria for conducting qualitative research defined by Steinke 
(2004). Furthermore, to operationalize the procedure of interpreting the collected 
empirical data, an evaluation strategy approach to expert interview analysis, 
proposed by Meuser and Nagel (2009) was applied. The approach is focused on 
specifying thematic units, i.e. reappearing and comparable topics found 
throughout the interview data (ibid, p.35). The identified thematic units and the 
connections between them form the basis for empirical generalizations that can 
be further interpreted through theoretically inspired perspectives. This 
corresponds with elements of the methodology of grounded theory (Strauss & 
Corbin, 1990), namely the processes of open and axial coding, which were also 
used to support the analysis of empirical data. 

 
 
5. Analysis  
5.1 Ecosia’s values and the company’s SDM with respect to 
managing partner relations 
Baumann (2018) provides two examples of Ecosia interrupting partnerships due 
to partners diverging from the company’s values. Describing the case of a “big 
petrol corporation” that approached the search engine company with an offer to 
use its product, he concludes: 
“…one of our core values is “Integrity” which also means not just being 
transparent about what we think and do, but also making sure that people can 
trust us…, because maybe if you have a partner and that allows you to reach 5 
million people that would be a lot of trees…, but on the other hand, if you 
compromise too much then you start losing integrity. And so, this is really a 
challenging balance to find sometimes and, in that case, we were also like: No, the 
cost for our integrity would be too high.” (ibid, p.4) 
Apparently, the consideration of the trade-offs between loosing integrity and 
establishing beneficial partnerships from a purely strategic perspective plays an 
important role for Ecosia’s decision-making. Baumann suggests that the reason 
behind this prudence lies in the “risk of greenwashing” which comes from the 
image of Ecosia as a brand. As he points out, this includes careful consideration, 
to avoid partnership deals that undermine the search engine’s credibility in front 
of its customers. 
Since 2016 Ecosia established several strategical partnerships with Internet 
browsers that included its services as the default search engine for their platforms. 
Some of the contracted companies were Brave, Pale Moon, Waterfox, Vivaldi and 
Polarity. Reflecting upon these recent deals Baumann (2018, p.4) states: 
“…the thing we all have in common, like all these browsers and we, is that 
we all value an openly decentralized web, where really there is space, and there 
are alternatives, and there is choice.” 
In an interview for Forbes magazine, Jon von Tetzchner, the CEO of Vivaldi, one of 
the browsers Ecosia is partnering with, also affirms the common values shared by 
the two IT ventures: 

 
 
 
"We believe in putting people in charge of their browsing experience, and 
by including Ecosia, we give our eco-conscious users easy access to a greener 
search engine option," (Kite-Powell, 2017). 
The goal of offering Internet users alternative and sustainable services, shared 
between Ecosia and its browser partners, suggests that their shared values serve 
as a common ground for collaboration. 
5.2 Ecosia’s values and the company’s SDM with respect to 
managing corporate capabilities 
The capabilities component represents the main resources that a company needs 
in order to create value and realize its value proposition. Corporate values may 
influence the SDM related to the capabilities that a company aims to secure. For 
instance, companies that pursue values of sustainability and care for the 
environment have reportedly switched to renewable energy policies, in order to 
reduce the environmental footprint of their electricity and fuel consumption. 
Baumann (2018: p.3) affirms that Ecosia has also switched to the use of solely 
renewable energy by investing some of its capital in a solar panel project. 
As an IT firm that mainly uses the server infrastructure of its partner Bing, Ecosia’s 
human resources are its main asset for developing and delivering the company’s 
product. Thus, Ecosia needs a workforce that is dedicated to its vision and mission 
as expressions of its normative orientation and strategy. To cultivate such 
commitment Ecosia aims at establishing an organizational culture based on its 
core values, and the “Sustainability” value in particular. One level on which the 
green search engine directs its efforts in developing a corporate culture of 
sustainability is the selection of candidates. In this regard Bainger (2018: p.4) 
points out: 
“When we are employing for a new role then we kind of understand how 
our culture and values are, so preferably we are also looking for people who we 
can see through their experience and what they like doing, etc., that they are 
fitting in with these values...” 
Baumann (2018: p.1) adds on by emphasizing on the rejection of candidates that 
are identified as neglecting the topic of sustainability: 

 
 
 
“In the interview process we usually ask: Why do you care about trees or 
the environment? And then see what people say… And I think if someone really 
wouldn’t care at all… we would probably not hire a person like that. I think for us 
it’s quite important to have at least some basic awareness of the topic.” 
Since hiring is just one aspect of HR management, it cannot suffice for the 
development of an organizational culture that caters to the company’s goals and 
values. Therefore, Ecosia needs to direct efforts towards the preservation of 
values within its organizational context. Baumann comments that there two main 
ways of doing that: 
 
“Everyone, but especially people in leadership positions regularly reflect 
on their behaviour and how it is in line with our core values and then try to be a 
positive example for others in that sense… I think that’s the biggest thing you can 
do and then also clearly pointing out when you think that there was a violation of 
core values. Being very honest, and open, and specific about that and not shying 
away of putting a finger there when it happens…” (ibid, p.6) 
5.3 Ecosia’s values and the company’s SDM with respect to 
managing customer touchpoints 
Ecosia’s monthly income and subsequently its monthly tree planting investments 
have been growing exponentially in the last 2 years. Baumann (2018: p.1) 
attributes “the biggest driver of that growth” to a “shift in mindset” from “just 
waiting for people to discover us to actually going out there and talk about Ecosia 
in different kinds of ways”. The company altered its passive attitude and began 
promoting its product through different channels, such as “PR, Social Media, paid 
and unpaid marketing” as well as “offline and online press” (ibid, p.1f). Baumann 
refers to partnerships with schools, universities and public organizations that 
adopt Ecosia as their search engine as an additional and important channel for 
promoting Ecosia’s services. He also outlines the different social media channels 
used by Ecosia, namely Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube, and stresses 
that videos are becoming “more and more important as a medium” (ibid, p.2). In 
relation to that he gives the example of using influencer marketing in order to 
reach potential users. Influencer marketing refers to a promotion strategy in which 
the focus is placed on specific individuals that mediate the company’s publicity 
rather than on the target market as a whole. In recent years influencer marketing 
has become a prominent approach to advertising products and services on social 
media websites (Woods, 2016). Baumann suggests that such collaboration with 
individuals popular on social media and related to topics, such as “health, lifestyle, 

 
 
and sustainability” can turn to be a “very efficient and targeted way to reach 
people”. 
Furthermore, Baumann outlines two core messages that Ecosia proclaims when 
promoting its product. The first one is related to protecting user privacy. Baumann 
(2018, p.3) argues that as a result of its efforts to improve the way it treats user 
data, Ecosia can claim to offer better privacy for its consumers than the market 
leader – Google. In a 2013 interview, Piotr Drozd, Ecosia’s Head of Growth and 
Analytics at that time, further affirms the importance for the green search engine 
to protect its users’ privacy. He states: 
 
“…we take the privacy of our users very seriously and don’t store any data 
or employ personalization algorithms, virtually each and every data point we 
collect is either aggregated or cookie-based…” (Smith, 2013). 
The second core message that Ecosia brings to its potential users when promoting 
its product is described by Baumann (2018) as follows: 
 
“You can use it very easily… And the real added value is that you search, 
you find results, but you can contribute to something big, something great, you 
can plant trees, you can really make a difference as an individual… it’s not just like: 
OK, I do a donation… but really on an ongoing basis you can see that …these trees 
are actually going in the ground somewhere, they are making a difference for the 
climate, for the people, for the environment, for biodiversity.” (ibid, p.3). 
The above statement suggests that Ecosia’s strategy to attract and retain users is 
based on establishing a link between its sustainable value proposition and the 
user’s affinity towards environmental protection and positive social impact. As 
claimed by Baumann (ibid, p.7), the two strategic challenges for Ecosia as a 
product and with regard to its customer outreach are on the one hand, developing 
platforms in order to be more “accessible to the user” and on the other hand, 
increasing its users’ engagement. The green search engine strives to connect each 
of its users “on a personal level and emotional level” to the positive impact that 
tree planting projects create. A proposed future outlook on how to establish such 
“intimate, close connection to the positive impact” of searches is for users to have 
accounts that allow them to track the trees that they have “planted” in a local 
project or “follow someone who is working and living there and get regular 
updates from this person”. Ecosia’s efforts towards establishing a connection 
between users and the positive impact they are creating is also expressed in the 

 
 
tree counter, which is available for each user, and calculates the average amount 
of trees planted due to activity on the website. Additionally, Ecosia advertises the 
achievement of milestones on its way to planting a billion trees by 2020. 
In order to obtain feedback from users about how they experience its offering, 
Ecosia focuses on applying user-centred research. The search engine collects and 
analyses its consumers’ data to closely monitor the user lifecycle, “starting with 
acquisition through activation, retention, referral and finally - the bottom line – 
revenue” (Smith, 2013). In the following quote Baumann (2018) highlights the 
importance of user-centred research for Ecosia: 
 
“The more you really know your users and you ask them regularly the more 
certain you can be that you actually are building, and working, and providing things 
they actually need and want. So, this is really one of our core values is “User focus” 
and that is what it means. In order to sort of focus on the user and honour the 
needs, and the problems, and the things they want you have to understand them 
first.” (ibid, p.4) 
According to Baumann (ibid, p.3f) Ecosia has carried out quantitative and 
qualitative research of its user base to identify 5 personas, which represent the 
company’s customer segments and their needs and preferences. Baumann 
describes three of the main personas identified by Ecosia. One core user group 
consists of people characterized as young students that are motivated and have 
an awareness “for the challenges… their generation is facing with climate change”. 
Second, are users over 45 years of age, who have been using Ecosia and have built 
a habit towards it. Third, Baumann refers to the group of “young professionals” 
using Ecosia who “have a pain when sometimes the relevancy and the quality of 
search results is not as good for some searches”. 
6. Discussion 
The analytical part of this paper begins with an exploration Ecosia’s SDM with 
respect to its partner relationships. As claimed by Baumann, Ecosia is particularly 
careful when considering new partnerships due to the risk of greenwashing, which 
can undermine the reputation of its brand. Greenwashing refers to the act of 
“combining poor environmental performance with positive communication about 
environmental performance” (Delmas & Burbano, 2011: p.84). The term is closely 
related with branding, which is in turn used by companies as a strategic tool to 
achieve differentiation from competitors. Breuer and Lüdeke-Freund (2017) argue 

 
 
that strategic management can use values-based branding in order to translate 
corporate values into brand values that appeal to customers. Ecosia’s case 
exemplifies such strategic approach, as the company aims to differentiate itself 
from competitors by adhering to its core values and promoting them as an 
inseparable aspect of its product brand. 
Furthermore, the interview results suggest that the shared values of Ecosia and its 
browser partners (i.e. to provide alternative and sustainable web services) serve 
as a basis for their collaboration. According to Breuer and Lüdeke-Freund values 
shared across organizations, can serve as a basis for establishing partnerships and 
triggering the formation of values-based networks. The authors reinterpret the 
notion of value networks (Lindgren et al., 2010), which provides an alternative to 
the traditional value chain concept, as more apt to the conditions of today’s highly 
complex market environment. Breuer and Lüdeke-Freund (2017) argue that while 
value networks emerge based on an “expected outcome (e.g. access to 
complementary resources, revenue opportunities, or the pleasure of working 
together)” (ibid, p.162), values-based networks aim at fulfilling the subjective 
notions of the desirable that underlie organizational decisions and evaluations. 
Thus, by adopting a values-based view of management companies can form 
partnerships in which their business model components interact in a way that 
contributes to their joint pursuit of common values. Accordingly, Ecosia’s 
partnerships with other companies from the IT sector, which share its purpose of 
providing alternative Internet services serve as an example of a values-based 
network. 
The data analysis with respect to the capabilities business model component 
generated two distinct findings about its interrelation with Ecosia’s core values. 
First, the core value of “Sustainability” is represented in the company’s use of 
exclusively renewable energy resources for powering its operations. Second, in 
order to motivate its employees in pursuing the company’s vision and mission, 
Ecosia develops an organizational culture based on its six core values. Candidates 
are being screened for their congruency with the “Sustainability” value while 
employees in leadership positions ensure that a culture in accordance with the 
core values remains intact. Thus, Ecosia serves as an example of a company that 
develops a corporate culture of sustainability. Based on a matched sample of 180 
companies, Eccles et al. (2011) found that companies adopting such corporate 
culture are more likely to organize procedures for stakeholder engagement, to be 
more long-term oriented, and to have executives that are more committed to 
sustainability. Moreover, the study suggests that companies adopting a corporate 

 
 
culture of sustainability “significantly outperform their counterparts over the long-
term, both in terms of stock market and accounting performance” (ibid, p.1). Thus, 
it can be argued that Ecosia’s values-based approach to HR management brings 
advantages to the company’s business model and strategic objectives. 
Baumann suggests that the use of influencer marketing in collaboration with 
people popular on social media is an approach applied by Ecosia to promote its 
product. Similar to the notion of values-based networks discussed above, such 
implementation of influencer marketing refers to a collaboration based on shared 
values. By reaching out to potential users that are already interested in the topics 
of sustainability and environmental protection (e.g. through engagement in the 
social media context) Ecosia establishes a link between their values and the 
purpose of its business, and thus expands its user base. Furthermore, in 
accordance with its core value of “User focus”, which aims to “empower people 
to do good” and “protect the needs of our users and act in their best interests” 
(Ecosia's Core Values, 2019), Ecosia promotes itself by emphasizing on the positive 
environmental impact of its business and its concern with protecting user privacy. 
Thus, it acknowledges two customer values that gain increasing importance and 
prominence in the context of today’s industrialized and digitalized world. This 
suggests that Ecosia’s promotion strategy, as a key element of the touchpoints 
business model component, is influenced by the company’s normative orientation 
and core values. 
Another aspect of the touchpoints component is the customer journey, 
characterized along its seven touchpoints, namely, become aware, inform, 
acquire, start up, use, modify and dispose or renew (Breuer et al., 2009). One of 
the findings of the present study is that Ecosia’s core value of “User focus” finds 
expression in the company’s emphasis on employing user-centred research. The 
analysis of its users’ lifecycle and the identification of personas allows the green 
search engine to understand and specify the needs and values of its consumers 
with respect to their customer journey. By doing so Ecosia can identify potentials 
for values-based innovation in its value proposition in order to attract and retain 
more users. 
7. Conclusion  
The case of Ecosia enriches the understanding about the directive role of values 
for strategic management, particularly with respect to designing and managing 
business models that are simultaneously financially viable and sustainability-

 
 
oriented. Thus, it exemplifies the assumptions of the values-based management 
theoretical framework and contributes with an additional case study to validate 
them in practice. The interpretation of the obtained results indicated that the 
corporate values of Ecosia influence the company’s SDM when it comes to 
business model design, particularly in terms of management of partnerships, 
product development and promotion strategies, the use of physical resources and 
HR management (see fig. 1 below). 
 
Fig. 1. Summary of key findings 
Considering the single case element of this study, further research is required to 
enhance the generalizability of findings. The small size and the start-up status of 
Ecosia as an organization are additional factors that hinder generalizability. Due to 
time and resource limitations, the study focused on the interplay between 
corporate values and SDM only with respect to selected components of business 
model design (i.e. partners, capabilities and touchpoints). Although the findings 
presented here suggest that corporate values play an important role for strategic 
and business model management, more studies are needed to validate this 
assumption and provide a more comprehensive analysis that incorporates further 
business model components. 
While strategic objectives traditionally aim at differentiation based on competitive 
advantage and financial success, Ecosia’s main objective in developing its product 
is to sensitize users about the topics of sustainability and environmental 

 
 
awareness. Even through the green search engine does not neglect the goals of 
profit maximization and improvement of its offering’s quality, these efforts are not 
defined as independent from the company’s values, vision and mission, but as 
subordinate to them. Although Ecosia is ran by a small team and operates in the 
search engine market, which is immensely dominated by Google, thanks to its 
business model, ambitious vision and dedication to the prominent values of 
environmentalism and sustainability, it has reached market success and creates 
substantial ecological and social impact throughout the world. As its popularity is 
growing and more and more people become active users of the platform it is 
transforming the Internet into a place where the small contributions of many users 
can lead to a significant positive impact for the environment. 
8. References 
Ayitey, W. (2010). A Simple Approach to Strategic Management, Methodist Book 
Depot 
Ltd, 
Available 
from 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/279958992_A_Simple_Approac
h_to_ Strategic_Management [Accessed 15th February 2018]. 
Bart, C., & Pujari, A. (2007). The performance impact of content and process in 
product innovation charters. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 
24(1), 3-19. 
Bleicher, K. (1994) Integrative management in a time of transformation. Long 
Range Planning, Vol. 27, No. 5, pp. 136–144. 
Breuer, H. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2017). Values-Based Innovation Management. 
Innovating by What We Care About. Hampshire, GB: Palgrave Macmillan. 
Breuer, H. (2014) Business innovation kit. E-Book, handbook and card decks to 
model 
new 
business. 
Available 
from 
https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00Q8Z5UHO [Accessed 15th February 
2018]. 
Breuer, H., Kettner, M., Wagler, M., Preuschen, N., & Steinhoff, F. (2009, July). 
Love at first encounter–start-up of new applications. In International 
Conference on Human-Computer Interaction (pp. 585-594). Springer, Berlin, 
Heidelberg. 
Bright Hub. (2010, August 13) EcoSearch.org is an Eco-Friendly Search Engine that 
Helps 
the 
Environment. 
Available 
from 
https://www.brighthub.com/environment/greencomputing/articles/23238
.aspx [Accessed 15th February 2019]. 
BusinessDictionary.com. 
(2019) 
strategic 
decision. 
Available 
from 
http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/strategic-decision.html 
[Accessed 15th February 2018]. 

 
 
Casadesus-Masanell, R. and Ricart, J.E. (2010), “From strategy to business models 
and onto tactics”, Long Range Planning, Vol. 43 Nos 2/3, pp. 195-215. 
Cleverism. (2018) Head of Product Management | Job Profile, Responsibilities, 
Requirements. 
Available 
from 
https://www.cleverism.com/job-
profiles/head- product-management/ [Accessed 15th February 2018]. 
Delmas, M. A., & Burbano, V. C. (2011). The drivers of greenwashing. California 
Management Review, 54(1), 64-87. 
Drucker, P. F. (2010). The practice of management. New York, NY: HarperCollins. 
Eccles, R. G., Ioannou, I., & Serafeim, G. (2012). The impact of a corporate culture 
of sustainability on corporate behavior and performance (No. W17950). 
Cam- bridge, MA, USA: National Bureau of Economic Research. 
Ecosia Knowledge Base. (2018a) How, where and why does Ecosia plant trees? 
Available 
from 
https://ecosia.zendesk.com/hc/en-
us/articles/115000129525- How-where-and-whydoes- [Accessed 15th 
February 2019]. 
Ecosia Knowledge Base. (2018b) Ecosia-plant-trees How much money does Ecosia 
earn and how much goes towards tree planting? Available from 
https://ecosia.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/201657281-How-much-
money- 
does-Ecosia-earn-and-how-much-goes-towards-tree-planting- 
[Accessed 6th Au- gust 2018]. 
Ecosia's 
Core 
Values. 
(2019) 
Available 
from 
https://documents.ecosia.org/374680/8921345 [Accessed 15th February 
2018]. 
Ecosia's 
Vision 
& 
Mission. 
(2019) 
Available 
from 
https://documents.ecosia.org/374680/12189055 [Accessed 15th February 
2018]. 
Freeman, R. E., & Auster, E. R. (2015). Bridging the values gap: How authentic 
organizations bring values to life. Berrett-Koehler Publishers. 
Fritzsche, D., & Oz, E. (2007). Personal values’ influence on the ethical dimension 
of decision making. Journal of Business Ethics, 75(4), 335-343. 
Froschauer, U., & Lueger, M. (2009). Expert interviews in interpretive 
organizational research. In Interviewing Experts (pp. 217-234). Palgrave 
Macmillan, Lon- don. 
Hacklin, F., & Wallnöfer, M. (2012). The business model in the practice of strategic 
decision making: insights from a case study. Management Decision, 50(2), 
166-188. 

 
 
Heimbuch, J. (2009, December 09). World's First Green Search Engine Launches 
Tree-Planting 
Email 
Service. 
Available 
from 
https://www.treehugger.com/clean-technology/worlds-first-green-search-
engine-launches-tree-planting-email- service.html [Accessed 15th February 
2019]. 
Kite-Powell, J. (2017, August 01). See How These Artists And Companies Are Us- 
ing 
Technology 
To 
Save 
Trees. 
Available 
from 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/jenniferhicks/2017/05/31/see-how-these-
artists- and-companies-are-using-technology-to-save-trees/ [Accessed 15th 
February 2018]. 
Lee, R. V., Fabish, L., & McGaw, N. (2005). The value of corporate values., Strate- 
gy + Business Magazine, issue 39, Booz Allen Hamilton/Aspen Institute. 
Lindgren, P.; Taran, Y. & Boer, H. (2010) From single firm to network-based busi- 
ness model innovation. International Journal of Entrepreneurship and 
Innovation Management, Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 122–137. 
Mackey, J. & Sisodia R. (2015) Foreword In: Freeman, R. E., & Auster, E. R. Bridg- 
ing the values gap: How authentic organizations bring values to life. Berrett- 
Koehler Publishers. 
Meuser, M., & Nagel, U. (2009). The expert interview and changes in knowledge 
production. In Interviewing experts (pp. 17-42). Palgrave Macmillan, 
London. 
Mintzberg, H. (2008). Mintzberg on management: Inside our strange world of 
organizations. New York, NY: Free Press. 
Morris, M., Schindehutte, M. and Allen, J. (2005), “The entrepreneur’s business 
model: toward a unified perspective”, Journal of Business Research, Vol. 58 
No. 6, pp. 726-35. 
Poortinga, W., Steg, L., & Vlek, C. (2004). Values, environmental concern, and 
environmental behavior: A study into household energy use. Environment 
and behavior, 36(1), 70-93. 
Porter, M. & Kramer, M. (2011) Creating shared value. Harvard Business Review, 
Vol. 89, No. 1/2, pp. 62–77. 
Smith, N. (2013, December 3). Case study: How data driven marketing is taking 
Ecosia 
to 
the 
next 
level 
| 
Geckoboard. 
Available 
from 
https://www.geckoboard.com/blog/how-data-driven-marketing-is-taking-
ecosia- to-the-next-level/ [Accessed 15th February 2018]. 
Steinke, I. (2004). Quality criteria in qualitative research. A companion to 
qualitative research, 21, 184-90. 
Strauss, A., & Corbin, J. M. (1990). Basics of qualitative research: Grounded theory 
procedures and techniques. Sage Publications, Inc. 

 
 
Teece, D. J. (2010). Business models, business strategy and innovation. Long range 
planning, 43(2-3), 172-194. 
Verplanken, B., & Holland, R. W. (2002). Motivated decision making: Effects of 
activation and self-centrality of values on choices and behavior. Journal of 
personality and social psychology, 82(3), 434. 
WWF. 
(2019) 
Deforestation. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.worldwildlife.org/threats/deforestation 
[Accessed 
15th 
February 2019]. 
Woods, Steven, (2016). #Sponsored: The Emergence of Influencer Marketing. 
University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects. Available from 
https://trace.tennessee.edu/utk_chanhonoproj/1976 
[Accessed 
15th 
February 2018]. 
Yin, R. K. (2014). Case study research: Design and methods. Los Angeles, CA: SAGE. 
Yin, R. K. (2014). Case study research: Design and methods. Los Angeles, CA: SAGE. 

 
 
Implementation of Sustainable 
Business Models in Technology-
Dominant Innovation Projects 
Embedding Sustainable Business Models in Business 
Processes 
 
Philipp Url1,*, Wolfgang Vorraber1 
 
1Institute of Engineering and Business Informatics, Graz University of 
Technology, Kopernikusgasse 24/III, Graz, Austria 
 
*philipp.url@tugraz.at 
 
Extended abstract  
Problem and current understanding - Technology is a driver for innovation, in 
economy as well as in research projects. The focus, in such projects, is often on 
technological and economic aspects only, whereas social and environmental 
aspects are only considered in a minimal way to comply with law (e.g.: ethical 
approvals and tests in medical areas, compliance with standards, …). This 
behaviour is described by Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund and Hansen (2011) as 
defensive sustainability strategy. As a consequence, potential benefits are missed. 
Furthermore, new possibilities for solution design, resulting in additional benefits, 
may open up if social and environmental aspects are considered more closely 
during research and innovation projects (Jirotka et al., 2017). Various frameworks, 
that foster sustainable business model innovation, and therefore include social 
and environmental aspects, exist (Bocken et al., 2013; Joyce & Paquin, 2016; 
Breuer & Lüdeke-Freund, 2016). As indicated in Figure 1, these frameworks focus 
on the architectural level. Frameworks, that describe and support the transfer of 
sustainable business models to the implementation level (see Figure 1), are rare. 

 
 
 
Figure 1: Business logic triangle including examples for sustainable business model 
frameworks and business process modelling tools. (Illustration modified from 
Rachinger et al., (2018) based on data in Osterwalder and Pigneur (2002), Mezger 
(2014) and Teece (2018)) 
Research gap - Existing frameworks describe very well how to initially consider 
sustainability in business models. It is still a challenge to implement the newly 
defined business model in technology-dominant research projects on a process 
level. Generating the link to the business processes and ensuring that defined 
values are lived in the business is not fulfilled by only defining the business model. 
First concepts already exist in this area (Solaimani & Bouwman, 2012). It is not 
clear how and to which extend existing frameworks and tools, such as the “value 
mapping tool” by Bocken et al., (2013) or the “triple layered business model 
canvas” by Joyce & Paquin (2016), do support the implementation of business 
models. 
Additionally, it is difficult to know which framework is the most appropriate for a 
particular situation as it is still required to apply existing frameworks in additional 
settings to gain more insights on their applicability e.g. Values-based framework 
and method by Breuer and Lüdeke-Freund (2016) and collaborative business 
modelling method by Rohrbeck, Konnertz and Knab (2013) were applied in the 
energy sector solely. Transferability to other industries is still an open question. 
Research question - From this following research question arises: How to ensure 
and implement sustainability in technology-dominant innovation projects?  
Case study - The research question is going to be investigated in the following case 
study in the healthcare sector. In this particular project, recent improvements in 
the area of additive manufacturing (AM) open up the possibilities to manufacture 
implants for patients directly in the clinic. 

 
 
As a consequence, medical processes may speed up, the number of required 
surgeries may be reduced. This may result in better fitting implants with improved 
properties enabled by AM and new materials.  
Many stakeholders are involved and new tasks appear in establishing and finally 
integrating a new process chain in the daily operation of a healthcare provider. 
Stakeholders such as patients, including sensitive data that needs to be handled 
properly, doctors and many industry partners, who provide 3D printers, printing 
material and know how, are involved. New roles might be required to fulfil those 
new tasks, for example a technical and medical skilled person that is able to model 
and prepare the implant for 3D printing with the help of a computer aided design 
software. To be able to print the implant at the healthcare provider new 
infrastructure, an AM center where 3D printers are located, needs to established. 
This also needs to be considered in the business model. Additional new tasks for 
healthcare providers, such as the operation and maintenance of 3D printers and 
3D printing material, have to be managed.  
In this project it will be very important to consider social aspects concerning 
patients, employees, and society in general. Also from business perspective it is 
crucial to ensure that the operation of new processes will be economically 
feasible. Environmental benefits are expected due to indirect effects achieved by 
less transportation of implants and less surgeries as implants are planned to be 
available right away.  
Based on the guiding research questions additional interesting aspects appear: 
How to develop new or adapt existing business models in this particular field of 
application? How to ensure sustainability of the newly developed process chain? 
How to proceed with the implementation of the defined business model? 
Research Method - The applied research method is guided by the Design Science 
Research Paradigm of (Hevner et al., 2004). The relevant problem space is 
investigated based on detailed literature research and application domain specific 
process analysis. Based on this investigation an argumentative deductive analysis 
(Wilde & Hess, 2007) will be applied to identify new concepts and design new 
technical artefacts such as frameworks to fill the research gap (Hevner, vom 
Brocke & Maedche, 2018). The above mentioned project will serve as a platform 
for conducting case studies, including workshops and surveys with key 
stakeholders to validate identified concepts. Additional case studies in other fields 
of application are also planned for further validation of the results. 

 
 
Expected contributions and practical implications - The expected contribution is to 
develop new or enhance existing frameworks, such as described by Solaimani and 
Bouwman (2012), to generate procedures that support the creation of sustainable 
business models in technology-dominant research projects and to ensure that 
those values, defined in the business model, are transferred to the business 
processes. 
Funding information: This work was supported by CAMed (COMET K-Project 871132) which is funded by the 
Austrian Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology (BMVIT) and the Austrian Federal Ministry 
for Digital and Economic Affairs (BMDW) and the Styrian Business Promotion Agency (SFG) 
Keywords 
Business model innovation, business process management, design science, 
additive manufacturing, sustainable business models. 
References 
Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2013) A value mapping tool for 
sustainable business modelling. Corporate Governance (Bingley). 13 (5), 482-
497. 
Breuer, H. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2017) Values-based network and business model 
innovation. International Journal of Innovation Management. 21(3), 
1750028. 
Hevner, A.R., March, S.T., Park, J. & Ram, S. (2004) Design science in information 
systems research. Management Information Systems Quarterly. 28 (1), 75-
105. 
Hevner, A., vom Brocke, J. & Maedche, A. (2018), Roles of Digital Innovation in 
Design Science Research. Springer Fachmedien Wiesbaden. Available from: 
http://link.springer.com/10.1007/s12599-018-0571-z 
[Accessed: 
30th 
January 2019]. 
Jirotka, M., Grimpe, B., Stahl, B., Eden, G. & Hartswood, M. (2017). Responsible 
research and innovation in the digital age. Communications of the ACM. 60 
(5), 62-68. 
Joyce, A. & Paquin, R.L. (2016) The triple layered business model canvas: A tool to 
design more sustainable business models. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
135, 1474-1486. 
Mezger, F. (2014) Toward a capability‐based conceptualization of business model 
innovation: insights from an explorative study. R&D Management, 44 (5), 
429-449. 

 
 
Object Management Group. (2015) Business Process Model and Notation (BPMN) 
Version 
2.0.2 
OMG 
Standard. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/2.0.2/ [Accessed 30th January 2019] 
Object Management Group. (2017) Unified Modeling Language (UML) Version 
2.5.1 
OMG 
Standard. 
Available 
from 
https://www.omg.org/spec/UML/2.5.1/ [Accessed 30th January 2019] 
Osterwalder, A. & Pigneur, Y. (2002) An eBusiness model ontology for modeling 
eBusiness. Proceeding of the 15th Bled Electronic Commerce Conference. 2. 
Available from: https://aisel.aisnet.org/bled2002/2 [Accessed 30th January 
2019]. 
Rachinger, M., Rauter, R., Müller, C., Vorraber, W. & Schirgi, E. (2018) Digitalization 
and its influence on business model innovation. Journal of Manufacturing 
Technology 
Management. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/full/10.1108/JMTM-01-2018-0020 
[Accessed 25th January 2019].  
Rohrbeck, R., Konnertz, L. & Knab, S. (2013) Collaborative business modelling for 
systemic and sustainability innovations. International Journal of Technology 
Management. 63 (1/2), 4-23. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E.G. (2012) Business cases for 
sustainability: the role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability. Int. J. Innovation and Sustainable Development. 6 (2), 95-119.  
Solaimani, S. & Bouwman, H. (2012) A framework for the alignment of business 
model and business processes. Business Process Management Journal, 18 
(4), 655–679. 
Teece, D.J. (2018) Business models and dynamic capabilities. Long range planning. 
51 (1), 40-49. 
Wilde, T. & Hess, T. (2007) Forschungsmethoden der Wirtschaftsinformatik. 
WIRTSCHAFTSINFORMATIK, 49, 280–287. 
 
 
 

 
 
Industrial symbiosis guide for 
identifying opportunities & 
conceptualising business relations 
 
Stéphane Ogé1, 2, 3, *, Francisco Mendez Alva4, Alexandre Bredimas1 
 
1Strane Innovation, Gif sur Yvette, France; 2CRGA-EVS UMR 5600, 
University of Lyon 3, France; 3ITECH, Ecully, France; 4Ghent 
University, Energy and Cluster Management, Faculty of Engineering 
and Architecture, Belgium 
*corresponding author: stephane.oge@strane-innovation.com 
 
Abstract  
Industrial symbiosis (IS) is a promising concept that consists in valorising 
underutilised resources from an entity as a substitute for another entity’s new 
resources (e.g. material, combustible, energy) or by mutualising their use (e.g. 
equipment, knowledge, social tactics). Although literature indicates the relevance 
of IS, it is not yet fully implemented on the field. The business model concept is 
foreseen to be useful for IS implementation, but no guideline assists companies in 
this respect. This paper proposes a framework that supports the identification of 
IS opportunities, their assessment according to an extended range of values 
(economic, social, ecological, territorial) for the whole stakeholders ecosystem, 
their business conceptualisation through a dedicated sustainable business model 
canvas and the creation of preliminary business cases to trigger interest of each 
organisation’s decision-maker. This methodology was developed with five process 
industries within the Horizon 2020 project EPOS. First results indicate that the 
framework can provide researchers, IS facilitators and companies with a useful 
tool for operational and research purposes. Unusual created or destroyed values 
can be assessed and integrated in the synergy business model which may foster 
synergies concretisation. It also gives a systematic method to evaluate the global 
synergy viability for society. Main research contributions are: (1) include process 
industries in the sustainable business models research field, (2) propose an 
innovative approach and a dedicated business model canvas focused on value co-

 
 
creation through a specific project rather than focused on a single organisation 
and (3) include territorial values in the considered value spectrum. 
Keywords 
Industrial Symbiosis, Business Model, Guide, Sustainability, Decision-making  
Main text  
Introduction 
Industrial symbiosis (IS) is considered fundamental for the transition towards a 
sustainable process industry in the European Union (EU) (A.SPIRE, 2018). It 
consists in valorising underutilised resources from an entity as a substitute for 
another entity’s new resources (e.g. material, combustible, energy) or by 
mutualising their use (e.g. equipment, knowledge, social tactics) (Adoue and 
Chambers, 2011; Deutz, 2014).  IS enables cooperative management of resources 
between traditionally separate actors (process industries, SMEs, public 
organisations, associations, etc.), at different scales (Maqbool et al., 2017). By 
working together, stakeholders can pursue greater benefits than the sum of 
individual benefits that each entity could get by optimising its individual 
performance only (Chertow, 2000). IS is a lever triggering the creation of value 
networks as defined by Jonker (2016). 
The EU dedicated more than €130 million since 2006 in R&D&I projects to fill IS 
implementation gaps and facilitate its uptake thanks to IT tools, methodologies 
and networks. Most existing or underdevelopment IT tools are mainly focused on 
identifying synergies, using a technical approach, even though they struggle in 
being widely operationalised due to limitations such as geographic and sector 
scope restriction, unviable business models, lack of industries’ feedbacks 
integration or failure in making it user-friendly and widely accessible (Grant et al., 
2010; Benedict and Kosmol, 2018; Maqbool, Mendez Alva and Van Eetvelde, 
2019). Other tools exist and are dedicated to improve existing symbioses in terms 
of financial, technical or even environmental performance (Kastner, Lau and Kraft, 
2015) or to assess their benefits using LCA, MFA, multi-criteria analysis, among 
other methods (Huang, Wang and Chen, 2019). By contrast, literature review 
revealed very few IS dedicated methodologies that not only help identifying 
synergy opportunities of any type and for any sector, but also guide their global 
assessment in order to facilitate decision-making processes of industrial 
managers. MAESTRI project provides guidelines to make a first resources valuation 

 
 
(Holgado, Evans and Benedetti, 2017), but the methodology is limited to the single 
economic value. The COMETHE project created a set of generic methods for 
techno-economic, regulatory, environmental and risk evaluation for synergy 
implementation, but they remain difficult to use and, do not address business 
model (BM) and business case (BC) issues (Module 2 - Comethe, 2011).  
In this paper, an easy-to-use non-IT tool is introduced and aims at filling some of 
the above-mentioned gaps. In particular, it consists in a 6-steps guide for 
practitioners helping to identify IS opportunities, but also to quickly assess a wide 
range of values (economic, social, environmental, territorial) synergies can create 
or destroy for an extended stakeholders’ ecosystem and to conceptualise these 
new business relations thanks to a dedicated sustainable business model canvas 
(BMC). This guide emerges from ongoing work carried out within the EU funded 
project EPOS (Enhanced energy and resource Efficiency and Performance in 
process industry Operations via onsite and cross-sectorial Symbiosis) and was 
developed with industries in the perspective of being widely applicable and 
accessible. It has been designed to respond to two operational issues: (1) how to 
foster and trigger IS implementation and (2) how to help companies integrate the 
whole positive and negative impacts of their industrial projects in decision-making 
processes. From a research perspective, the developed methodology provides 
elements to analyse whether IS is a viable model for both individual industries and 
for the global system of stakeholders. 
Approach 
This empirical methodology has been iteratively developed in EPOS through 
synergy analyses and the conceptualisation of 15 business opportunities in 5 
demonstration clusters across Europe. It merges well-known existing 
methodologies such as SWOTs and the BM canvas, and original and innovative 
modules specifically developed within EPOS. Based on industries’ feedbacks, it has 
been designed to be generic and realistically usable by limiting spent time and data 
collection efforts. Its final outcome is not a detailed assessment of a synergy but a 
preliminary analysis that aims at triggering interest of stakeholders’ decision-
makers who could then decide to engage in the project development. This guide 
is considered as an IS accelerator enabling a quick relevant opportunities 
identification and analysis. 
Similar to (Barquet et al., 2013)’s approach for PSS, this research investigates IS 
using the BM concept prism. The BM is an excellent unit of analysis for studying 

 
 
managerial and entrepreneurial approaches as well as stimulating and revitalising 
business philosophies (Schaltegger, Hanse and Lüdeke-Freund, 2016). In this 
paper, the BM is considered as a tool, and not as a practical reality in businesses 
as defined by (Galper, 2001; Judith and Mark, 2003). It describes organisation’s 
principles to create, deliver and capture value (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2011). 
Literature review on BM for IS showed a paucity of guidelines assisting companies 
to use this concept for synergies implementation. This paper provides some 
elements to fill this gap.  
In addition, as IS creates a sophisticated conglomerate of environmental, 
economic, social and territorial values (Chertow and Lombardi, 2005; Chopra and 
Khanna, 2014; Maillefert and Robert, 2015), the guide proposes guidelines to 
integrate this whole in the synergy value proposition definition. It builds on the 
Sustainable Business Model (SBM) concept (Schaltegger, Hanse and Lüdeke-
Freund 2016) adapted to the IS context, completed with territorial values and 
conceptualised within a usable canvas for practitioners. The SBM field generally 
focuses on SMEs or service organisations but this guide extends the perimeter to 
process industries and provides thoughts on how to bring these innovative 
paradigms to such actors. These economic sectors, as they are characterised by 
the SPIRE Association64, differ significantly from the former because they are part 
of very competitive and global markets. They have high financial pressures, 
substantial ecological footprints, BM orientation on product selling and are part of 
well-established value chains. Consequently, the guide not only contributes in 
tackling IS implementation issues and integrating more values in decision-making 
processes, but it helps process industries evolve their traditional BM to more SBM 
thanks to the IS lever. 
Proposed guide 
The proposed methodology is translated into a 6-step guide for company decision-
makers and IS facilitators (ISF). ISF are cluster managers, consulting companies, 
public bodies, associations, academics. The six steps illustrated in Figure 1 are:  
1. LESTS analysis: cluster context analysis, definition of relations among 
cluster stakeholders and first identification of synergy opportunities; 
2. SWOT analysis: refinement of opportunities analyses, shortlist of 
prioritised synergies and definition of IS cluster strategy; 
                                                 
64 https://www.spire2030.eu/spire/the-association 

 
 
3. Scope definition: analytical scope definition of one specific synergy, i.e. 
build the ecosystem of stakeholders directly and indirectly involved, collect 
data and define synergy scenarios; 
4. Value mapping: identification and assessment of a wide range of values – 
economic, environmental, social, territorial – for each stakeholder and for 
the different scenarios; 
5. Business Model: clarification of the (co-)created values in a synergy-
specific sustainable BMC and definition of delivery and capture processes, 
including private and public (non-)financing schemes; 
6. Business Case: summary of information needed for decision-making by 
each stakeholder to further engage in the project, or not. 
 
 
Figure 1: IS guide scheme 
The methodology follows a chronological process in which each step provides 
outcomes that feed one or several following steps. It is divided in two main blocks 
represented in light and dark blue. The former aims at identifying and prioritising 
synergy opportunities in a specific area which are then individually analysed in the 
latter block. This second block gathers the central elements to conceptualise 
business relations and is the focus of this paper. External sources of information – 
mainly technical, contextual documents and exchanges with stakeholders – are 
required to initiate step 1 and complete step 3 and 4 (cf. grey arrows). The 
outcome is a synergy specific BC dedicated to each involved stakeholder in the 
synergy creation process. The 6 steps’ goals and progress are provided below. 
  
Step 1 – Cluster and synergy opportunities overview: LESTS analysis  
The first stage of an IS project is the identification of underused resources that can 
lead to a synergy (Grant et al., 2010). To achieve this goal, it is proposed to use the 

 
 
LESTS methodology, originally tailored to evaluate the collaboration degree within 
a specific cluster. Its approach is to scan cluster characteristics, identify relevant 
actors and assess their relations regarding 5 different dimensions introduced in 
Figure 2: Legal, Economical, Spatial, Technological and Social (Van Eetvelde et al., 
2007). It is particularly relevant for IS and is applied at two scales in this guide: 
cluster and synergy. A local ISF knowing the context (e.g. association, consular 
chamber, cluster manager, etc.) is recommended to lead this step for a more 
efficient process while non-local facilitators or influent local companies are also 
credible leaders.  
 
Figure 2: Detail of LESTS dimensions (Maqbool et al., 2017) 
At cluster level, three methodology stages are required: (1) research publicly 
available information about the cluster, its actors and analyse it according to the 
five LESTS angles; (2) send an extensive questionnaire detailed in (Maqbool, 2016) 
to the key actors previously identified; (3) make a complementary literature 
review to identify potential synergetic opportunities for cluster’s resources. 
Information sources are MAESTRI’s library of case studies (Benedetti, Holgado and 
Evans, 2017) and the ISDATA web platform (ISDATA, 2013) among others. If 
reported cases involve similar sectors and/or resources as in the cluster, cases 
could be replicated. Outcomes are thus a longlist of synergetic opportunities in the 
cluster, but also a better understanding of the local context and the identification 
of key actors and the characterisation of their relationships.  
At synergy level, foreseen implementation barriers of each opportunity are 
assessed by the user of the guide and translated into specific LESTS scores. Scores 
are provided through the qualitative evaluation of 15 indicators corresponding to 
IS success factors (Albuquerque et al., 2017) – 3 per LESTS dimension respectively 
covering policy, company, and resource level issues. Based on its knowledge, the 
guide user must assess the synergy opportunity “barrier level” for each indicator 
according to a Likert scale from 1 to 5 (5 being a situation without any identified 
barrier). Figure 3 provides the analysis grid and the final score in a pentagon shape. 

 
 
 
 
Figure 3: LESTS scores showing foreseen barriers of potential synergies 
Based on EPOS experience, if all individual scores are higher than 2 and the total 
average score above 3, the opportunity has an implementation potential. When 
criteria are not met, it is recommended to exclude the opportunities until new 
elements in the business environment would facilitate their implementation. 
Thanks to this scoring, opportunities from the long-list can be sorted out and 
prioritised. The most relevant ones are further investigated in the next steps.  
 Step 2 – Cluster and synergy opportunities characterisation: SWOT 
analysis 
The most relevant information from Step 1 is presented in the well-known SWOT  
framework (Hill and Westbrook, 1997). SWOT is integrated into this guide due to 
its broad popularity and because it is an easy way to communicate analysis 
outcomes to relevant stakeholders. Such step should be led by any organisation 
directly involved in the synergy, with a broad context understanding.  
At cluster level, the objective is to scan the current collaboration status among all 
the actors and characterise some opportunities. Strengths, weaknesses, 
opportunities and threats are thus listed for each of the 5 LESTS cluster 
dimensions. The SWOT information display provides a qualitative grasp of the 
collaborations’ potential and enables the drafting of territorial or cluster IS 
strategies. High-level strategies fix global goals and might direct towards the 
implementation of a certain type of synergy opportunities. For example, if the 
global goal is to increase cluster’s renewable and recovery energy rate, synergy 
valorising waste heat and fuels would be of high priority. By defining such global 
strategies, synergy implementation decisions are facilitated and accurate 
monitoring of implemented synergy according to appropriate indicators are 
ensured.  

 
 
In a similar way, SWOTs are carried out for individual companies to characterise 
the synergy opportunities identified in step 1. By properly analysing organisations 
through the SWOT framework, duties, needs, or desires that could trigger 
synergies are clarified. Synergies must capitalise on actors’ strengths and 
opportunities while managing weaknesses and threats. SWOTs are based on LESTS 
scores of the prioritised synergy and provide a qualitative understanding of each 
specific synergy, their feasibility potential, and suspected main issues. Depending 
on global strategies and first analysis elements, it leads to a first Go/No Go 
decision. 
 Step 3 – Synergy pre-assessment: Scope definition & Ecosystem 
creation 
From this stage, the guide is focused on one single synergy. It is the core added 
value of the paper as the 4 steps provide guidelines for the assessment of synergy 
opportunities while giving a new analysis paradigm to be adopted by guide users. 
The specific goals of the third step are to: (1) identify and federate a stakeholders’ 
ecosystem associated to the synergy and (2) characterise the analysis scope, and 
especially the business-as-usual and synergy scenarios. Steps 1 and 2 gave some 
rough pathways and context elements, but the challenge of this step is to refine 
these elements in the perspective of making accurate preliminary analyses. 
To achieve the first specific goal, a typology of actor profiles that should be 
considered in the synergy assessment process is proposed in Figure 4. Actors are 
characterised by their roles and involvement degree in the synergy. The Central 
actors are directly involved in the synergy and are those without which a synergy 
cannot exist, i.e. organisation requiring/sending/sharing a resource. Peripheral 
actors are more indirectly involved but still necessary for the synergy 
implementation (e.g. transporters, treatment service providers, funding bodies, 
ISF, etc). External actors are not direct synergy stakeholders, but they are 
impacted positively or negatively (e.g. traditional raw material suppliers, local to 
national public authorities, nature, citizens, associations, etc.). Geographically 
speaking, such actor diversity is split at micro, meso or macro levels depending on 
the synergy nature, needs and impacts. The use of this reading grid is 
recommended to globally understand the synergy and its potential wide impacts 
in terms of stakeholders and geographic scale. 

 
 
 
Figure 4: Synergy stakeholders ecosystem model 
 
Next, EPOS’ experience reveals that at least four chronological actions are 
necessary to correctly characterise the analysis scope. Figure 5 illustrates this 
iterative process alternating information research in publicly available sources and 
exchanges with relevant organisations to collect additional data and validate 
understanding and hypotheses. As it requires data collection and engagement of 
several actors with potentially diverging motivations and goals, it is recommended 
that step 3 be led by a neutral actor such as an ISF. To collect valuable data, it must 
guaranty confidentiality and may set up NDAs (Non-Disclosure Agreement) 
depending on organisations and expected data. 
 
Figure 5: Sequence of actions in step 3 
The first action (A1) consists in deepening the issues related to the synergy 
creation, mainly technical and regulatory, but eventually cultural and financial. A 
non-exhaustive list of key questions that should be answered is provided below:  
• What are the main characteristics of the synergy resource? 

 
 
• Which resource(s) is substituted or replaced and what are its main 
characteristics? 
• What are the productive and external factors influencing the 
resource qualitative and quantitative characteristics? (E.g. 
seasonal/production cycles variations; market dependency, etc.) 
• Which stakeholders might be involved? 
These questions can be answered using documents such as: BREFs (Best available 
techniques REFerence document), professional technical documents (e.g. 
Technique de l’ingénieur), academic literature (e.g. Industrial & Engineering 
Chemistry Research; Journal of Cleaner Production; Journal of Hazardous 
Materials), local information or IS repositories (e.g. ISDATA, MAESTRI’s Library of 
case studies). It leads to a list of detailed technical and organisational assumptions 
that must be validated or disproved through exchanges with all relevant synergy 
stakeholders in the second action (A2). A short survey of 30 questions (as a 
maximum) is sent to these targeted actors. A semi-directive interview is then 
organised to answer the questions, ensuring a certain flexibility to cover 
unanticipated topics and issues. Some typical questions are:  
• Can you detail the resource production process? 
• In which unit the resource will be used and how will it be 
introduced? 
• What are the specifications of resources to be used in your 
process? 
• What is the current resource disposal process and how much do 
you pay for (range)? 
• Will the synergy creation affect your organisation (handling, 
storage, etc.)? 
Cited questions are relevant indications but they are non-exhaustive. Surveys 
must be designed on a case-by-case basis to better integrate synergy specificities. 
Based on interviews outcomes, the guide user can validate the resource technical 
match between central actors. It must have a clear understanding of the processes 
generating/recovering the resource, the exchanged and impacted resources, their 
associated technical issues as well as organisational, regulatory, economic, 
environmental, and social impact insights.  
The third action (A3) initiates the second process iteration. The current level of 
knowledge allows for several synergy implementation scenarios, depending on 
several variables (e.g. type of transport; required intermediary treatment; 
resources use, etc.). These scenarios give the possibility to explore and assess the 
impact of several parameters which may direct decision-making towards more 
sustainable solutions. Nevertheless, additional information must be researched to 

 
 
build and reinforce these scenarios by using sources such as: resource market 
prices platforms, transport costs, LCI (Life Cycle Inventory) databases, local 
subsidies, taxes, and regulations trends, technologies quotes, industrial partners 
expertise, etc. A new review of technical sources (cf. action 1) might also be 
considered. 
Finally, the fourth action (A4) aims to validate and update the analysis framework. 
Feedbacks from central actors are needed and could be completed with peripheral 
and external ones. A survey is set up and sent to these actors, including visual 
diagrams for synergy scenarios to facilitate common understanding. An interview 
is then organised. Questions must validate all technical, economic, organisational, 
regulatory and risk assumptions, as well as the reference (business as usual) and 
alternative synergy scenarios. Some typical questions are provided below: 
• Could you validate the market price range of the resource? 
• What is the emission composition when you burn the resource? 
• Do you have the final composition of the resource? 
• How would the synergy be set up on your plant? 
• Where is your current raw material provider located? 
After the fourth action, it can be deemed necessary to set up other action 
iterations to clarify some issues, refine the scenarios or collect more data. This 
must be decided by the guide user. 
Step 3 is crucial for a rigorous analysis. It provides a significant improvement of 
the synergy understanding and forms the analysis framework to assess the value 
creation/destruction processes in step 4. Scenarios and scopes are characterised, 
and the useful information is gathered and made available. An exhaustive mapping 
of the organisations involved, implied or impacted by the specific synergy is made. 
This whole stakeholders ecosystem will be considered in the BM construction 
process as the synergy could create or destroy value for each of them, and thus 
influence its global sustainability and viability.  
 Step 4 – Synergy assessment: Value mapping 
For each of the reference and synergy scenarios, created and/or destroyed values 
must be identified, qualified and quantified when possible. Values can be positive 
(creation) or negative (destruction). Specific analyses involving a wide range of 
actors are required to assess all value forms (economic, environmental, social, 
territorial), and more importantly the ones generally not considered (Bocken, 
Rana and Short, 2015). Guide’s approach is inspired from Bocken et al. who 
proposed a value mapping tool (2013) and adapted to IS conditions. Identified 

 
 
stakeholders are invited to define and assess the synergy value propositions. It is 
not needed to imply each stakeholder, but it is recommended to consider values 
for all of them to ensure an accurate value analysis. This step should be led by a 
neutral actor such as an ISF for the same reasons as in step 3. Based on field 
experience and literature review, the guide proposes guidelines to assess the 
different value typologies.  
First, pure economic values must be assessed as they are the main decision-
making indicators for private companies and to a lesser extent, public 
organisations. Several typologies of value created (new revenues & costs avoided) 
or destroyed (costs created & foregone incomes) exist. New revenues are 
generated by selling underutilised resources. Their value depends on their use (as 
heat, combustible or material), the type of substituted resource and their quality. 
They must be compared to equivalent resources from the market. It can 
significantly change and requires a detailed investigation by the guide user. Costs 
avoided can be generated for several actors and emerge from the reduction of 
expenses to public bodies (e.g. EU-ETS for CO2), external private entities (e.g. 
disposal or depollution treatments) or internal, if part of the waste management 
is done by the organisation. These costs are highly dependent on the business, 
context, and resource type among other indicators and should be identified from 
interviews with stakeholders. By contrast, a synergy generates additional fixed 
(CAPEX) and variable (OPEX) costs that might be a significant barrier for IS 
implementation. They are inherent (transport, organisational changes or 
transaction costs) or conditional and appear whenever new infrastructure, 
additional treatment or decommissioning of existing equipment are required. 
Such values can be assessed through quotes, literature review, interviews or using 
EPOS’ database of 39 IS technologies (Krese et al., 2017). Finally, foregone incomes 
appear when extending the analysis scope to peripheral and external actors. Some 
typical stakeholders who lose revenues are from upstream value chain of the 
resource substituted (e.g. traditional raw material provider) or from downstream 
value chain of the exchanged resource (e.g. actors currently taking care of the 
resource). It is recommended to consider these four types of value for all the 
mapped stakeholders to ensure a holistic and complete analysis and thus position 
on the synergy global viability, characterised by: 
෍(𝑛𝑒𝑤 𝑟𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑛𝑢𝑒𝑠+ 𝑎𝑣𝑜𝑖𝑑𝑒𝑑 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡𝑠−𝑎𝑑𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑎𝑙 𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡𝑠−𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑒𝑔𝑜𝑛𝑒 𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑠) > 0 
Second, environmental values must be analysed for three main reasons: (1) check 
the synergy global environmental performance, (2) mobilise impacted external 

 
 
stakeholders, such as public authorities or citizens, who could (un-)lock the 
synergy viability thanks to adapted value transfer mechanisms, (3) provide 
industries with the environmental footprint of their projects in the perspective of 
anticipating constraints (from regulations, societal pressure) or to develop new 
form of competitive advantage. The environmental value analysis is made through 
a preliminary life cycle assessment (LCA) comparing the environmental 
performance of the reference (business-as-usual) and synergy scenarios to 
produce the same amount of goods (functional unit). Results can be provided 
according to 1565 midpoints indicators, 466 aggregated endpoints or even in euros, 
using the monetisation methodology StepWise2006 (Pizzol et al., 2015). The guide 
user defines the required aggregation level, expressing the outcomes in a way that 
is appropriate for stakeholders. The more aggregated are the results, the more 
understandable they are for a large public, but more underlying choices and 
assumptions are not visible to decision-makers. For instance, monetisation 
methods are based on a utilitarian vision of nature assuming a perfect substitution 
of economic and natural capitals which is highly controversial. However, their 
principle benefit is to facilitate the internalisation of non-economic values in 
synergy BM and to induce organisations’ behaviour changes toward ecologically 
and socially optimal production (Prud’homme, 2001). LCA is a science based on a 
certain number of hypotheses that each guide user should be aware of and 
consider when using the results.  
Third, the guide user is provided with a set of 20 indicators helping the assessment 
of the social values created by the synergy. These values emerge from the 
generated social capital, i.e. an accumulation of resources collectively built 
through the relational network involving various and diverse actors (Nahapiet and 
Ghoshal, 1998; Dussuc and Geindre, 2012). Values are created based on the 
strength and frequency of new inter- and intra-companies’ relations. Examples of 
values are improved company performance and innovation; improved 
people/employee well-being; facilitated future business opportunities; initiated 
innovation strategies; improved brand image and relations with local 
communities. They are more likely subjective and should be collectively assessed 
by the stakeholders themselves through workshops. Stakeholders are best 
positioned to judge whether these values can have an impact in synergy 
implementation decision-making and to what extent. The proposed 20 indicators 
                                                 
65 Carcinogens, Non-carcinogens, Respiratory inorganics, Ionizing radiation, Ozone layer depletion, 
Respiratory organics, Aquatic ecotoxicity, Terrestrial ecotoxicity, Terrestrial acidification, Land 
occupation, Aquatic acidification, Aquatic eutrophication, Global warming, Non-renewable energy, 
Mineral extraction 
66 Human health, Ecosystems impact, Global warming, Resource depletion 

 
 
(cf. Annexe 1: Social value indicators) are related to 5 issues (governance, actors, 
relationships, motivations and effort) and are supposed to help and guide the 
value assessment. They are selected based on an extensive literature review and 
aim at widening stakeholders’ perspective of the synergy impacts and to foster 
discussion and co-assessment. 
Similarly, a set of 32 indicators is proposed to foster the assessment of territorial 
values. The principal difference is that these values are mainly destined to public 
authorities, considered as guarantor of territorial values. Representative from 
authorities should gather to collectively assess the indicators. Territorial values 
arise from the concept of territorial capital, i.e. a system of territorial goods of 
different natures: economic, cultural, social and natural that enables the potential 
development of a certain territory (OECD, 2001; Lacquement and Chevalier, 2016). 
This multidimensional capital is a collective construction that determines the 
territorial competitiveness (Camagni, 2006, 2009) and its level of integration in the 
global economy (Peyrache-Gadeau and Pecqueur, 2004). Values result from the 
creation of territorial externalities which generally cannot be made private, nor 
restricted to a good provision (Maillefert and Robert, 2017). Proposed indicators 
(cf. Annexe 2: Territorial value indicators) ad dress key territorial issues: 
attractiveness, economy development/preservation, social & environmental 
impacts, planning, innovation and autonomy. They are not exhaustive but should 
help the consortium consider and integrate more values in their synergy BM. 
The outcome of stage 4 is a wide range of synergy value propositions, which are 
for the most part generally not considered in traditional decision-making 
processes. It also considers a wider group of stakeholders that are affected, 
positively or negatively, by the synergy creation. This approach aims at capturing 
not only individual stakeholder’s values but also the so called “co-created” values 
through collective assessment. It will enable the integration of more values into 
the synergy BM and it is a lever to change the decision-making paradigm through 
more systemic, holistic and likely, fairer processes. 
 Step 5 – Synergy business conceptualisation: IS sustainable business 
canvas 
Step 5 focuses on the synergy BM set up and provides the guide user with a 
framework – the IS sustainable BMC – that enables the crystallisation of all the 
information collected and analysed during the previous steps. Osterwalder and 
Pigneur’s canvas is selected as a conceptual basis due to its efficiency and wide 

 
 
dissemination. However, their BMC only focuses on economic values which is 
inappropriate to the IS concept. It is thus completed with other value typologies 
to create a sustainable BMC for synergies that brings competitive advantage 
through a value proposition contributing to sustainable development of the 
company and the society (Lüdeke-Freund, 2010). The proposed IS SBMC draws 
from existing frameworks: 
The Triple layer Business Model Canvas (Joyce and Paquin, 2016) that 
integrates 2 additional layers: 1 environmental, based on a life cycle 
perspective, and 1 social, based on a social perspective. It efficiently helps 
organisations to clarify how they generate multiple types of values.  
Value Mapping Tool (Bocken et al., 2013) combined to the Service/Product 
Value Analysis and Business Model Design67. It goes one step further by 
helping 
organisations 
assessing 
and 
implementing 
new 
value 
opportunities. 
IS sustainable BMs archetypes (Luca, Magno and Albino, 2016). 
While inspiring, these tools have also some limitations as the first two are not 
applied to IS and all three focus on the value creation by one company. An 
alternative approach is proposed in Figure 6. It is not only an IS dedicated SBMC, 
but it is also an innovative approach that emphasises that value propositions are 
co-created within the synergy stakeholders’ ecosystem and not simply by a single 
organisation.  It is foreseen to help organisations think out of the box, integrate all 
identified values, and more importantly, design collaborative value-capture and 
transfer processes.  
Value propositions are central and divided in four independent blocks 
corresponding to the value typologies assessed in step 4. The guide user must 
summarise the values created and destroyed and their associated stakeholder 
(e.g. “Company A - improve material efficiency”; “Biodiversity - lose 7 BAHY”). Cost 
structure and revenue streams boxes are kept to define how economic value 
propositions are traduced in terms of additional CAPEX, OPEX, foregone incomes, 
new revenues, avoided costs and for which stakeholder (e.g. “Company A – 2,5 
M€ CAPEX”; “Company A – 700 k€ raw material savings). Private (non-)financial 
mechanisms boxes refer to mechanisms that capture the social value. They can be 
monetary (e.g. “Company A – 10k€ for further resource analysis to replicate the 
synergy with intermediary 1”) or non-commercial (e.g. “Company B – label 100% 
local raw material”). Similarly, public (non-)financial mechanisms are dedicated to 
territorial value capture mechanisms. They can be financial (e.g. “Local 
                                                 
67 Tools designed by the Centre for Industrial Sustainability (University of Cambridge) 

 
 
municipality – synergy fosters energy security of 50 000 people on long-run, 
municipality subsidies by 20 M€”) or not (e.g. “National authority – based on the 
example of the values provided by this synergy, public contracts should only be 
granted to companies with a circular material rate of 50%). 
 
Figure 6: Synergy Sustainable BMC 
Organisational/Local/Regional/National footprint balance boxes should be filled 
with adequate environmental value mechanisms for each geographic scale such 
as: “Company A – CO2 emission reduction of 30%”; “Local Community – local air 
quality improvement led to 5 additional QALY”; “Region – reduction by 5% of 
regional material extraction”; “EU – system reduced by 30% its contribution to 
global warming”. Thanks to monetisation, values can be expressed in euros and 
could facilitate negotiations between industries and public authorities, leading to 
economic benefits such as tax reduction or subsidies. The consortium block 
corresponds to the 3 layers from Figure 4 and should be filled accordingly with 
organisations’ name and role. Key resources and activities summarise technical 
and organisational relevant elements for the synergy running. Partners 
relationships detail the nature of consortium members relations thanks to the 
synergy (e.g. competition, cooperation, coopetition). It can be seen the Customer 
segments, Channels and Customer Relationships from the BM Canvas have been 

 
 
removed. This important choice is explained by the nature of IS which is a 
cooperative process, with clearly identified partners and no customers. 
The recommended actor profile to lead this step is an ISF with legal, financial and 
mediation expertise. After filling the framework alone based on its understanding, 
it should then be submitted to all the stakeholders, individually or through a 
workshop, for content validation. Fair value-sharing between stakeholders would 
increase the chances of synergy implementation and long-term perpetuation. In 
addition, the use of this tool could lead to innovative value transfer mechanisms 
such as public subsidies based on environmental, social and/or territorial expected 
performance. In that way, stakeholders will engage to respect their initial goals 
and monitor real impacts after implementation. 
 Step 6 – Synergy triggering: Business cases 
The last step corresponds to the creation of BCs providing each individual 
stakeholder decision-maker with the elements to position, favourably or 
negatively, on the synergy implementation project. Based on the IS SBMC, 
relevant information for each stakeholder must be summarised in a concise and 
short document. A generic BC framework is provided to the guide user (cf. Annexe 
3: Generic BC framework) with 7 sections: organisation key context elements; 
stakeholder’s needs clarification; synergy advantages/disadvantages compared to 
business as usual or other projects in competition; synergy’s value propositions 
for this specific stakeholder; impacts on the organisation; financing needs and 
schemes; risks. 
Preliminary results 
This guide has been developed through the analysis of existing and potential new 
synergy opportunities. Systematic LESTS and SWOT analyses were carried out in 
the 5 EPOS demonstration clusters at Lavéra (FR), Dunkirk (FR), Hull (UK), Rudniki 
(PL), Visp (CH) (Maqbool, 2016). It clarified both clusters’ contexts and 
stakeholders and provided a long-list of existing and potential synergies among 
them. A total of 15 synergies were studied in detail between companies from five 
sectors of the process industry (petrochemicals, steel, cement, waste 
management and minerals). Their value assessment is heterogeneous, from only 
economics to the four types of values. BM and BCs of four synergies were 
submitted to companies and taken over by industries. To this day, one BC clearly 
inspired a company’s decision-maker. A detailed feasibility study has been carried 
out, validating the BC trends, and the synergy should be implemented in the 

 
 
following months. Some elements detailing the use of this guide for this synergy 
are given below. 
In step 1, the LESTS analysis at cluster level in Hull revealed that low social and 
economic collaborations were existing between EPOS industries. However, 
numerous potential synergies were identified. One of them concern a liquid waste 
stream from a Petrochemical Company (PC) which is currently sent to a boiler 
owned by a third party. It could be burnt in a local Cement Factory (CF), actively 
looking for alternative fuels. Synergy’s LESTS score is described in Figure 7. The 
main identified barrier is legal, due to the need to change the waste status of the 
resource. 
 
Figure 7: Hull synergy LESTS score 
In step 2, the SWOT analysis reveals that the synergy should be relatively easy to 
implement, with finally no extra permits as CF is authorised to burn wastes. It 
should generate economic benefits for both parties, and it is compatible with their 
core activities. Synergy weaknesses correspond to the low quantity produced and 
possible additional investments. The main opportunity is the presence of a waste 
manager in the near area that could manage the waste between both sites. In 
addition, both companies could improve their environmental performance in the 
perspective of future regulations. The main threat is the competition with other 
fuel providers. 
Step 3 starts with a literature review on cement and chemical sectors to better 
understand the origin and the use of the waste fuel, the production parameters, 
risks, etc. Initially, foreseen actors were PC and CF (central), the waste manager 
(peripheral), the primary fuel supplier and the third party currently using the liquid 
(external). Interviews with central stakeholders enabled to check information 
gathered, get additional technical, organisational data and clarify regulatory 

 
 
issues. From these interviews emerged the need to separate the stream in 
different fractions (acid and organic) to avoid any risk when blending fuels before 
use in the CF. A second peripheral stakeholder has been integrated in the analysis 
for the distillation of the liquid into fractions. Further analyses enabled the 
establishment of reference and synergy scenarios according to the variables: 
transport (truck or boat), waste production flow rate evolution in the future (or 
+40%), intermediary treatment. These scenarios were validated during the second 
interview wave and provided the required data for further analysis. 
 
Figure 8: Reference and one synergy scenario diagrams 
In step 4, the economic analysis considered two values related to the resource 
valorisation: the heat value (revenues from the sale of the organic fraction for PC 
and reduced costs compared to conventional fuels for CF) and the intrinsic value 
(avoided costs due to the internal reuse of the acid fraction in PC). An avoided cost 
is observed because PC stopped paying for the current disposal solution. However, 
the synergy implementation implies three additional costs for treatment 
(distillation), management (blending before use) and transport. The analysis 
revealed that all the costs and revenues are negligible in comparison with the 
internal reuse of the acid and solvent fractions in PC. It is important to note that 
most of the value is not generated by the synergy itself but through an internal 
optimisation at PC scale. These values unlocked the synergy viability, which 
otherwise would unlikely have been relevant. The LCA has been carried out. 
Indicators were monetised and compared to economic values. Results show that 
45% of the total economic value (TEV) is generated through environmental values. 
It is thus highly necessary to consider these values. While in this specific case, the 
synergy viability is ensured by pure economic values, in other contexts, assessing 
environmental values might enable the generation of additional revenues from 
public authorities (e.g. subsidies). Socially, the synergy created additional links 
between local stakeholders and created a new relation between PC and the 

 
 
distillation intermediary. It might lead to further cooperation to valorise additional 
residues. To that extent, it can be associated to a positive social value. From a 
territorial perspective, the synergy increases the circularity rate of the industrial 
system, fosters 0,5 jobs creation and saves the equivalent of 7 years of “healthy 
life”. 
The IS SBMC was then completed (Step 5) and individual business cases (Step 6) 
drafted and targeted to each organisation decision-maker. Results cannot be 
shared due to confidentiality issues as the synergy is under implementation. 
Nevertheless, this case study pointed out (1) the absolute necessity to exchange 
with stakeholders as some issues cannot be anticipated with publicly available 
information, (2) the relevance to consider a wide range of values for IS assessment 
(cf. environmental values are 45% of TEV) and (3) the fact that IS does not always 
create high value but it can be a lever to trigger further value creation processes 
(cf. internal reuse in PC). 
Discussion and Conclusion 
This guide has proven to be useful for both operational and research purposes. 
First results indicate that it can provide organisations with a valuable IS 
implementation tool, helping the investigation of different synergy opportunities 
and triggering interest for the most promising ones. It clearly contributes to raise 
sustainability awareness among process industries by showing viable projects than 
can link competitiveness gains with higher social and ecological performance as 
well as territorial development. By identifying various and varied values and 
integrating them within the synergy BM, the methodology provides additional 
levers for synergy setup or more broadly for the implementation of industrial 
sustainable projects. From a research point of view, this work contributes to 
knowledge creation on SBM by providing a methodology that (1) extends the 
traditional research perimeter to process industries, (2) includes territorial values 
in the value spectrum, and (3) proposes an original approach, focused on value co-
creation through a specific project rather than thinking at the single organisation 
level. A tailored version of the BM canvas is proposed to deal with specific IS 
challenges, and especially its collaborative nature. Finally, the proposed analysis 
paradigm offers the means to assess on the global viability of the project. 
Several limitations to the guide are identified. First, it relies on the direct use by 
companies or facilitators while in EPOS it was used by academics as a research tool 
to systematically study IS cases. Future research should focus on enabling a full 

 
 
and easy use by practitioners, clarifying how each step must be conducted 
especially the assessment of social and territorial values. Second, the guide does 
not cover the final stages in the synergy creation process (e.g. detailed feasibility 
study, implementation, monitoring, follow up). Authors consider that these stages 
are generally taken by the involved companies themselves and may not need any 
additional tool as pointed out by Grant (2010). Third, while considered as a utopia 
by some academics (Capron and Quairel, 2006), authors tried to give some 
methods to qualify and even quantify externalities of various natures. The 
methods need improvements (e.g. values redundancies, assessment), but they 
have the benefit of helping SBM implementation in the field and raising 
awareness. Finally, Tanev et al. stated that value co-creation is not efficient when 
using a traditional value-creation process and requires a complete reconsideration 
of how a company operates (2009). In this guide, although it extends the SBM 
notion to heavy industries through IS projects, it does not aim at reconsidering 
completely how companies operate. Nevertheless, IS implementation might be a 
significant lever for radical change in industries’ BM. Authors suggest using this 
methodology in future research projects to test its applicability in other contexts 
and for a wider number of synergies and then better understand the IS potential 
to create or unlock significant sustainable values in process industries.  
Acknowledgement 
The research leading to these results has received funding from the European 
Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation program under grant agreement 
no. 679386, EPOS project (Enhanced energy and resource Efficiency and 
Performance in process industry Operations via onsite and cross-sectorial 
Symbiosis). The sole responsibility of this publication lies with the authors. The 
European Union is not responsible for any use that may be made of the 
information contained therein. 
 
 

 
 
References 
A.SPIRE (2018) Vision 2050: Towards the Next Generation of European Process 
Industries. 
Adoue, C. and Chambers, S. (2011) Implementing industrial ecology : 
methodological tools and reflections for constructing a sustainable 
development. 
Science 
Publishers. 
Available 
at: 
https://books.google.fr/books?id=cSvOBQAAQBAJ&pg=PA39&lpg=PA39&d
q=Industrial+symbiosis+synergy+substitution+and+mutualisation&source=
bl&ots=2mFCSjUV_G&sig=ACfU3U2ZW3W-
mFfp_Z_ZfogEZM5ZTpZ2qw&hl=fr&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjku-
C79LbgAhVhzoUKHdiGDC4Q6AEwCnoECAMQAQ#v=onepage&q=Industrial 
symbiosis synergy substitution and mutualisation&f=false (Accessed: 12 
February 2019). 
Albuquerque, M. et al. (2017) Checklist of criteria/conditions for successful IS. 
Barquet, A. P. B. et al. (2013) ‘Employing the business model concept to support 
the adoption of product–service systems (PSS)’, Industrial Marketing 
Management. 
Elsevier, 
42(5), 
pp. 
693–704. 
doi: 
10.1016/J.INDMARMAN.2013.05.003. 
Benedetti, M., Holgado, M. and Evans, S. (2017) Prototype library of case studies 
linked to a waste database (D4.2). 
Benedict, M. and Kosmol, L. (2018) ‘Designing Industrial Symbiosis Platforms -from 
Platform Ecosystems to Industrial Ecosystems’, in Twenty-second Pacific 
Asia 
Conference 
on 
Information 
Systems. 
Japan. 
Available 
at: 
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/325397155. 
Bocken, N. et al. (2013) ‘A value mapping tool for sustainable business modelling’, 
Corporate Governance: The international journal of business in society. 
Edited by G. Lenssen, Mollie Painter, Aileen Ion.  Emerald Group Publishing 
Limited , 13(5), pp. 482–497. doi: 10.1108/CG-06-2013-0078. 
Bocken, N. M. P., Rana, P. and Short, S. W. (2015) ‘Value mapping for sustainable 
business thinking’, Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering, 32(1), 
pp. 67–81. doi: https://doi.org/10.1080/21681015.2014.1000399. 
Camagni, R. (2006) ‘Compétitivité territoriale : la recherche d’avantages absolus’, 
Reflets et perspectives de la vie économique, 1, pp. 95–115. 
Camagni, R. (2009) ‘Modelling Future of Regional Development and the Concept 
of Territorial Capital’, in Conference of Colloquium on Sustainability, 
Disparities and Polycentricity. Prague. 
Capron, M. and Quairel, F. (2006) ‘Evaluer les stratégies de développement 
durable des entreprises : l’utopie mobilisatrice de la performance globale’, 
Revue des Organisations responsables, 1, pp. 5–17. 

 
 
Chertow, M. and Lombardi, D. R. (2005) ‘Quantifying Economic and Environmental 
Benefits of Co-Located Firms’. American Chemical Society. doi: 
10.1021/ES050050+. 
Chertow, M. R. (2000) ‘INDUSTRIAL SYMBIOSIS : Literature and Taxonomy’, Annual 
Review of Energy and the Environment, 25(1), pp. 313–337. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.energy.25.1.313. 
Chopra, S. S. and Khanna, V. (2014) ‘Understanding resilience in industrial 
symbiosis networks: Insights from network analysis’, Journal of 
Environmental Management. Academic Press, 141, pp. 86–94. doi: 
10.1016/J.JENVMAN.2013.12.038. 
Deutz, P. (2014) ‘Food for Thought: Seeking the Essence of Industrial Symbiosis’, 
in Pathways to Environmental Sustainability: Methodologies and 
Experiences. Cham: Springer International Publishing, pp. 3–11. doi: 
10.1007/978-3-319-03826-1_1. 
Dussuc, B. and Geindre, S. (2012) ‘Capital social, théorie des réseaux sociaux et 
recherche en PME : une revue de la littérature.’, in 11ème congrès CIFEPME 
(Congrès International francophone en en- trepreneuriat et PME),. Brest, 
France, p. 19. 
Van Eetvelde, G. et al. (2007) ‘Sustainability scanning of eco-industrial parks’, in 
European Roundtable on Sustainable Consumption and Production, 11th, 
Proceedings. 
Galper, J. (2001) ‘Three Business Models for the Stock Exchange Industry’, The 
Journal of Investing. Institutional Investor Journals Umbrella, 10(1), pp. 70–
78. doi: 10.3905/joi.2001.319454. 
Grant, G. B. et al. (2010) ‘Information and communication technology for industrial 
symbiosis’, Journal of Industrial Ecology, 14(5), pp. 740–753. 
Hill, T. and Westbrook, R. (1997) ‘SWOT analysis: It’s time for a product recall’, 
Long Range Planning, 30, pp. 46–52. 
Holgado, M., Evans, S. and Benedetti, M. (2017) Toolkit for Industrial Symbiosis 
(D4.3). 
Huang, M., Wang, Z. and Chen, T. (2019) ‘Analysis on the theory and practice of 
industrial symbiosis based on bibliometrics and social network analysis’, 
Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier, 213, pp. 956–967. doi: 
10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2018.12.131. 
ISDATA (2013) ISDATA. 
Jonker, J. (2016) New Business Model. Nijmegen. 
Joyce, A. and Paquin, R. L. (2016) ‘The triple layered business model canvas: A tool 
to design more sustainable business models’, Journal of Cleaner Production. 
Elsevier, 135, pp. 1474–1486. doi: 10.1016/J.JCLEPRO.2016.06.067. 

 
 
JUDITH, G. and MARK, G. (2003) ‘The US Wine Industry and the Internet: An 
Analysis of Success factors for Online Business models’, Electronic Markets, 
13(1), pp. 59–66. doi: 10.1080/1019678032000039877. 
Kastner, C. A., Lau, R. and Kraft, M. (2015) ‘Quantitative tools for cultivating 
symbiosis in industrial parks; a literature review’, Applied Energy. Elsevier, 
155, pp. 599–612. doi: 10.1016/J.APENERGY.2015.05.037. 
Krese, G. et al. (2017) Technology and management database for cross-sectorial 
IS. 
Lacquement, G. and Chevalier, P. (2016) ‘Capital territorial et développement des 
territoires locaux, enjeux théoriques et méthodologiques de la transposition 
d’un concept de l’économie territoriale à l’analyse géographique’, Annales 
de géographie, 711(5), p. 490. doi: 10.3917/ag.711.0490. 
Luca, F., Magno, M. and Albino, V. (2016) ‘Business models for industrial 
symbiosis: a guide for firms’, in Procedia Environmental Science, Engineering 
and Management, pp. 83–93. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2010) ‘Towards a Conceptual Framework of “Business Models 
for Sustainability”’, in Knowledge collaboration & learning for sustainable 
innovation. 
Available 
at: 
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2189922 (Accessed: 
15 February 2019). 
Maillefert, M. and Robert, I. (2015) ‘Coopération et construction des territoires : 
quels leviers communs autour de l’écologie industrielle et de l’économie de 
la fonctionnalité?’, in ADRDLF 2015, Territoires méditérranéens : 
agriculture, alimentation et villes, p. 17. 
Maillefert, M. and Robert, I. (2017) ‘Nouveaux modèles économiques et création 
de valeur territoriale autour de l’économie circulaire, de l’économie de la 
fonctionnalité et de l’écologie industrielle’, Revue d’Économie Régionale & 
Urbaine, Décmbre(5), p. 905. doi: 10.3917/reru.175.0905. 
Maqbool, A. S. (2016) Preliminary SWOT analysis of the EPOS sites and their cluster 
- potential I. 
Maqbool, A. S. et al. (2017) ‘A Heuristic Approach to Cultivate Symbiosis in 
Industrial Clusters Led by Process Industry.’, in Sustainable Design and 
Manufacturing 2017, pp. 579–588. 
Maqbool, A. S., Mendez Alva, F. and Van Eetvelde, G. (2019) ‘An assessment of 
European information technology tools to support industrial symbiosis’, 
Sustainability, 11(131), p. 15. 
Module 
2 
- 
Comethe 
(2011). 
Available 
at: 
http://www.comethe.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&i
d=90&Itemid=65 (Accessed: 14 February 2019). 

 
 
Nahapiet, J. and Ghoshal, S. (1998) ‘Social Capital, Intellectual Capital, and the 
Organizational Advantage’, The Academy of Management Review, 23(2), p. 
242. doi: 10.2307/259373. 
OECD (2001) Territorial outlook. Territorial economy. Paris. 
Osterwalder, A. and Pigneur, Y. (2011) Business model nouvelle génération : un 
guide pour visionnaires, révolutionnaires et challengers. Pearson. 
Peyrache-Gadeau, V. and Pecqueur, B. (2004) ‘Les ressources patrimoniales : une 
modalité de valorisation par les milieux innovateurs de ressources 
spécifiques latentes ou existantes’, in Ressources naturelles et culturelles, 
milieux et développement local. Neuchâtel, EDES, pp. 71–89. 
Pizzol, M. et al. (2015) ‘Monetary valuation in Life Cycle Assessment: A review’, 
Journal of Cleaner Production. doi: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2014.08.007. 
Prud’homme, R. (2001) ‘Marginal social cost pricing in transport policy’, in 7th 
ACEA SAG Meeting on “Marginal social cost pricing in transport policy”. 
Brussells. 
Schaltegger, S., Hanse, E. G. and Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) ‘Business Models for 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues’, Organization 
& Environment, 29(1), p. 8. 
Tanev, S. ., Knudsen, M. and Gestlberger, W. (2009) ‘Value Co-creation as Part of 
an Integrative Vision of Innovation Management.’, Open Source Business 
Resource. 
 
 
 

 
 
Annexe 1: Social value indicators 
Issues 
Indicator 
Metrics 
Description 
G 
Actor 
governing 
type 
Public/Private/PPP 
Indicates the stakeholder 
typology governing the 
synergy creation process 
Leading 
actors 
Natural Number (n° of 
actors in the steering 
committee) 
This indicator gives the 
number 
of 
actors 
(person/organisation) 
managing, 
leading, 
coordinating the synergy 
creation. 
Facilitation 
Yes, No 
Answer Yes if the synergy 
is facilitated by a third 
party 
A 
Central 
actors 
Natural Number (n° of 
actors directly involved) 
Number of actors (person 
or organisation) centrally 
involved in the synergy, 
i.e. all actors actively 
participating 
(meeting, 
data, etc.) 
Peripheric 
actors 
Natural Number (n° of 
actors 
indirectly 
involved) 
Number of actors (person 
or organisation) indirectly 
involved in the synergy, 
i.e. all actors actively 
participating 
(meeting, 
data, etc.) 
External 
actors 
Natural Number (n° of 
actor groups impacted) 
Number of actors (person 
or 
organisation) 
impacted by the synergy, 
i.e. actors concerned by 
externalities 
R 
Actors' 
Links 
Natural Number (n° of 
links) 
This indicator gives the 
whole 
number 
of 
additional structured links 
(material or immaterial) 
created in the territory 
through 
the 
synergy 
creation process 
Informal 
Links 
% (n° informal links/n° 
additional links) 
Formal links are purely 
professional 
while 
informal are outside of 
the professional sphere. 
They might be intra or 
inter-company. 
Trust 
% 
(n° 
trusted 
links/ 
additional links) 
This indicator is the part of 
the new links created 
thanks to the synergy, 
that can be defined as 
trusted, i.e. no fear, long-
lasting perspective. 
Actors' 
interdepen
dencies 
Natural Number (n° of 
inter-organisational links 
per org.) 
This 
indicator 
is 
an 
average of the inter-
organisational 
links 

 
 
created for each of the 
stakeholders 
directly 
involved 
in 
the 
ITE 
initiative. 
Interconne
ctions 
% 
(n° 
exchanged 
resources/n° resources 
==> after/before) 
Variation 
of 
the 
organisations' 
resources 
interconnectivity in the 
territory thanks to the 
synergy creation process. 
Geographi
c Scale 
km separating 
organisations 
This indicator statistically 
characterises 
the 
geographic scale of the 
synergy 
Relations' 
frequency 
n° emails 
exchanged/month 
n° phone calls/months 
n° physical 
meeting/months 
This 
indicator 
clarifies 
exchanges 
frequency 
between 
partners 
involved in the synergy. 
Relations' 
intensity 
Natural 
Number 
(n° 
physical meeting / n° 
total exchanges) 
Intensity 
of 
people 
exchanges inter or intra-
organisation. 
Employees 
Engageme
nt 
Natural 
Number 
(n° 
hours 
spent 
in 
dialogue/consultation) 
This indicator traduces 
the level of engagement 
of 
employees 
in 
the 
synergy creation process. 
Social 
Engageme
nt 
Natural 
Number 
(n° 
hours 
spent 
in 
dialogue/consultation) 
This indicator traduces 
the 
inclusion 
level 
of 
parties from the society in 
the 
synergy 
creation 
process. 
Social 
Acceptabi
lity 
Natural 
Number 
(n° 
complaints) 
This indicator traduces 
the social acceptability 
of this synergy, which 
inherently creates several 
organisational 
changes 
and impacts. 
M 
Charismati
c support 
Yes, No 
Answer Yes if the synergy 
is 
supported 
by 
a 
legitimate or powerful or 
charismatic local political 
or industrial actor 
Initial 
motivation 
Environmental, 
Regulatory, 
Cost 
reduction, 
Image, 
Industrial performance, 
Additional 
benefits, 
Innovation, 
Risk 
reduction, Long-lasting 
relationships, individual 
willingness, 
Awards, 
Knowledge 
sharing, 
preserve activity  
This indicator must clarify 
each stakeholder's main 
motivations to be part of 
the synergy. For each 
stakeholder, 
it 
is 
important to detail the 
motivations 
for 
each 
cited element and a 
statistical 
characterisation can give 
the 
global 
synergy 
motivations. 

 
 
E 
Initial time 
consuming 
Natural 
Number 
(n° 
total hours) 
This indicator traduces 
the effort, in terms of time, 
dedicated to initialise the 
synergy creation process 
by 
the 
steering 
committee. 
 
Annexe 2: Territorial value indicators 
Issues 
Indicator 
Metrics 
Description 
At 
General 
Territorial 
Attractivene
ss 
% 
(n° 
companies 
interested in setting up / 
n° companies surveyed) 
This indicator shows the 
level 
of 
interest 
that 
companies might have to 
set up a plant in this 
territory and be part of 
the synergy. 
Saved 
activities 
Natural 
number 
(n° 
saved activities) 
Expected saved activities 
(that might have shut 
down otherwise) on the 
territory thanks to the 
synergy implementation. 
New 
products 
Natural 
number 
(t/y, 
m3/y, n°/y) 
Expected volume of new 
products from (new or 
existing) 
firms 
on 
the 
territory thanks to the 
synergy 
creation. 
If 
physical product: t or m3; 
if service, it can be the 
volume of these services. 
Total 
investment 
€ 
Additional 
investments 
made on the territory 
thanks to the synergy. 
Private 
funding 
% (€ private investment / 
€ total investment) 
Part 
of 
the 
total 
investments funded by 
private organisations. 
Ec 
GDP 
€ 
This indicator gives the 
absolute territorial wealth 
variation thanks to the 
synergy creation. 
GDP Growth 
% (€ GDP after ITE / € 
GDP before ITE) 
This indicator traduces 
the 
yearly 
territory 
(industrial system) wealth 
variation thanks to the 
synergy creation. 
Public 
Benefits 
€ 
This indicator shows the 
real economic benefits 
for public organisations 
on the territory generated 
thanks to the synergy 
creation. 

 
 
Private 
Benefits 
€ 
The 
real 
benefits 
generated by industries 
thanks to the synergy 
Reinvestmen
t 
Ecological, Production, 
Employees, Innovation, 
Additional 
services, 
Social Economy 
This qualitative indicator 
clarifies the reinvestment 
strategy of the different 
synergy 
beneficiaries 
(company, 
public 
authorities, 
etc.). 
Additionally, 
it 
should 
detail the amount and 
the goal. 
Economic 
Weight 
% of territorial turnover 
(1)  
% of territorial added 
value 
(2) 
% of territorial jobs (3) 
This indicator assesses the 
relative 
significance/weight 
of 
the 
synergy 
in 
the 
territorial economy. 
Economic 
Performance 
€/t 
This indicator traduces 
the 
economic 
added 
value (avoided costs + 
additional 
benefits) 
created by the synergy, 
for each tonne of final 
product 
Surface Area 
performanc
e 
€/ha (€/ha after synergy 
- €/ha before) 
This indicator gives the 
synergy additional value. 
It can also be an absolute 
indicator 
representing 
the 
territory 
ground 
efficiency. 
S 
Employment 
balance 
Natural number (n° jobs 
created 
- 
n° 
jobs 
destroyed) 
The indicator evaluates 
the net synergy impact 
on direct and undirect 
employment. 
En 
Air quality 
kg PM2.5 (Respiratory 
inorganic 
after 
- 
Respiratory 
inorganic 
before) 
This 
indicator 
from 
IMPACT 2002+ compares 
the 
air 
quality, 
and 
especially the impact for 
human 
health 
(fines 
particle, ammonia, CO, 
NOx, SOx) 
 
Diverted 
Waste 
Volume  
t/y 
Sum of all the wastes 
diverted thanks to the 
synergy. 
 
End 
of 
life 
manageme
nt 
% 
(tonne 
diverted/ 
(tonne diverted+ tonne 
wasted)) 
This indicator shows the 
industrial system capacity 
to manage its materials' 
end of life thanks to the 
synergy. 
 
Material 
performanc
e 
t/t 
This indicator defines the 
gains in terms of material 
uses for the production of 
each 
tonne 
of 
final 

 
 
product thanks to the 
synergy. 
 
Energy 
performanc
e 
MWh/t 
This indicator defines the 
gains in terms of energy 
uses for the production of 
each 
tonne 
of 
final 
product thanks to the 
synergy. 
 
RRE 
%(MWh 
RRE/MWh 
consumed after / MWh 
RRE/MWh 
consumed 
before) 
This indicator shows the 
variation of the use of 
Renewable 
and 
Recuperation 
Energy 
compared to the whole 
energy 
consumption 
thanks to the synergy 
creation. 
P 
Regional 
Scheme 
Yes, No 
Answer yes if this synergy 
fosters outcomes defined 
in the local Agenda 21, 
SRDEII, PRPGD, PRAEC, 
SRADDET, S3, or other 
regional schemes. 
I 
New 
technologies 
Natural number (n° of 
new technologies) 
Additional 
technologies 
and/or 
infrastructures 
implemented thanks to 
the synergy (not on the 
territory beforehand). 
New 
competenci
es 
Natural number (n° of 
people 
with 
new 
competencies) 
Additional people with 
skills that were not (or 
under-) represented on 
the territory and who are 
hired 
thanks 
to 
the 
synergy. 
New training 
program 
Natural number (n° of 
new training program) 
Additional 
training 
programs created thanks 
to the synergy. 
Normalisatio
n 
Natural Number (n° of 
new ISO norms) 
n° of ISO norms (social, 
health, 
environmental) 
collaboratively 
set 
up 
between partners of the 
synergy. 
Replicable 
Synergy 
Yes, No 
Answer 
Yes 
if 
the 
implemented 
synergy 
can be duplicated on the 
territory or replicated on 
other territories. 
Synergy 
replication 
potential 
Natural number (n° of 
replicated synergies) 
Synergies that can be 
implemented across a 
wider territory thanks to 
the 
synergy 
dissemination. 

 
 
Au 
Energy 
Dependenc
y 
% (energy 
imported/used energy 
==> after / before) 
Variation of the energy 
dependency 
of 
the 
industrial system before 
and after the synergy 
implementation. 
Material 
Diversificatio
n 
% (specific material 
use/total material use 
==> after/before) 
Variation of the territorial 
economy 
dependency 
regarding one specific 
material in comparison to 
the 
whole 
material 
consumption. 
Material 
Dependenc
y 
% (material 
imported/used material 
==> after / before) 
Variation of the material 
dependency 
of 
the 
industrial system before 
and after the synergy 
implementation. 
Circularity 
% 
(secondary 
raw 
material/total 
raw 
material ==> after / 
before) 
Variation of the part of 
reused, 
revalorised 
or 
secondary raw material 
used as raw material in 
the industrial system. 
Long-term 
Material 
Autonomy 
% (material use/material 
deposit 
==> 
after/before) 
Variation of the long-term 
territory 
autonomy 
by 
comparing the resources 
currently consumed vs. 
the amount of identified 
resources on the field. 
 
 
Annexe 3: Generic BC framework 
Sections 
Content 
General context 
Political, legal, cultural, regulatory, environmental, 
economic context of the organisation, the 
local territory, the state, the EU 
Risks and trends associated to organisation’s 
activities 
Employees’ perception of the organisation 
Organisation dynamism (projects, innovation, 
research) 
Current relations with the territory, neighbourhood 
actors 
Need 
Main problem/pains carried by the organisation 
To what extent the organisation needs the synergy 
creation 
Existing problems solved by the synergy 
To what extend the synergy support the 
organisation’s strategy 
Competition 
Define the business as usual (competition with no 
action) 

 
 
Define other considered solutions solving the same 
problem 
Compare advantages/disadvantages of 
competitors 
Synergy 
values 
Propositions 
Project and its boundaries (resource considered, 
uses, organisational changes, key activities, 
etc?) 
Detail how the synergy satisfies organisation’s 
needs 
Synergy legal issues 
Detail all values created (positive) and destroyed 
(negative) for the organisation in comparison 
with best competitor and how they should be 
captured 
Impacts on the 
organisation 
Project partners and their associated role 
Identify whether existing partnership might 
disappear or evolve 
Logistic, human resource, competence and 
infrastructure requirements 
Additional responsibilities and engagements 
Next steps in terms of additional studies or 
implementation and their timeline 
Expected synergy duration 
Financing 
Potential investment needs and if so, potential 
sources 
Detail all financing schemes 
Risk 
Project risks and associated potential impacts 
New interdependencies and their impact 
How future organisation modification can impact 
the synergy  
Risk management plan 
 

 
 
Sustainable business model 
archetypes for the electric vehicle 
battery second use industry 
Towards a conceptual framework 
 
Robert Reinhardt1,*, Beatriz Amante García1, Ioannis 
Christodoulou2, Santiago Gassó-Domingo1 
 
1Department of Project and Construction Engineering, Universitat 
Politècnica de Catalunya (UPC) - BarcelonaTech, C/Colom 11, Edifici 
TR-5, 08222 Terrassa, Spain; 2Department of Marketing and Business 
Strategy, University of Westminster, 35 Marylebone Road, London 
NW15LS, United Kingdom 
 
*robert.reinhardt@upc.edu 
 
Abstract 
This study examines the necessity and contributes towards the development of a 
sustainable business model (SBM) for the emerging battery second use (B2U) 
market within the electric vehicle (EV) industry. Previous work identified that 
SBMs and EV B2U are emerging as major research streams but there is seems to 
be paucity among literature to deliver an overarching framework or a holistic view 
between these fields and highlight fresh areas for future research. We intend to 
unearth new knowledge through comprehending how B2U stakeholders 
undertake their business-related activities. These are not only focused on 
economic profitability but more importantly address wider social and 
environmental stakeholder value as part of prospective SBMs. We are using the 
SBM archetypes as the major lens for our data analysis to study multiple cases of 
B2U stakeholder roles and understand further the scope and ultimate purpose of 
their operations. Preliminary results indicate that the SBM archetypes lead 

 
 
towards sustainability innovation strategies that create a new conception of 
business models for sustainability in the EV B2U market. Additionally, although 
profitability is a major priority, it does not seem to be number one anymore. This 
is an element that confirms a new market perspective towards a sustainable 
circular economy. In turn, this creates shared sustainable value for multiple 
stakeholders through cross-sectoral collaborations. Ultimately, we aim to 
conceptualise a sustainable innovation business model (SIBM) framework for the 
B2U industry. The particular model includes such shared sustainable value 
creations which in turn drive forward business performance and sustainability at 
the same time.  
Keywords 
sustainable business models, sustainable business model archetypes, sustainable 
value, electric vehicles, battery second use 
Introduction 
A mass-market uptake of EVs is still limited as a result of the high costs of installed 
lithium-ion battery packs (LIBs), which represent the single largest cost item in the 
vehicle (Ahmadian et al., 2018). In fact, Jiao & Evans (2016a) found current 
practices in the EV industry to be unsustainable from the economical (e.g. high 
battery costs), societal (e.g. ‘range anxiety’ and limited charging infrastructure) 
and environmental perspective (e.g. unsustainable charging sources and lack of 
environmentally-sound end-of-life disposal mechanisms). Through reusing retired 
EV batteries, the concept of Battery Second Use (B2U) significantly reduces 
resource cycles by increasing total LIB service life in less demanding applications 
in the stationary energy storage market (e.g. renewable energy integration), which 
in turn can help to build smart grid technologies (Podias et al., 2018; Neubauer & 
Pesaran, 2011).  
B2U is a major cost-effective solution that could result in additional revenues for 
EV manufacturers (Jiao & Evans, 2016b). This leads to EV companies being able to 
lower their vehicle prices, consequently making EVs more competitive and 
attractive towards the mass market. Simultaneously, there is a growing trend 
towards renewable energy production and decentralized generation, which 
underline that more attention must be given to grid integration issues such as 
establish suitable electrical storage capacities in upcoming years as addressed in 
the Paris Agreement for Climate Change and United Nations Sustainable 

 
 
Development Goal 7: “ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and 
modern energy for all” (United Nations Secretariat, 2018).  
However, there seems to be a frustrating contradiction. The much-needed 
integration and storage of renewables is still impeded due to the lack of cost-
effective large-scale energy storage systems (i.e. industries desire augmentation 
of battery capacity and power, increased lifetime and reduced costs (Reinhardt et 
al., 2019; Heymans et al., 2014). Therefore, the concept of B2U could facilitate to 
unlock hidden value and utilities. For example, the energy storage market will be 
boosted as used batteries can be procured at low cost and in a sustainable 
perspective, indicating new businesses opportunities (Reinhardt et al., 2017). To 
this end this would mean that the emerging B2U industry has the potential to 
disrupt and revolutionise current landscapes of the automotive and energy sectors 
as reusing LIB batteries through the concept of B2U embodies the most cost-
effective electricity storage solution available today. 
A variety of EV companies have started initiating B2U pilot projects in 
collaboration with energy companies, recyclers, service providers and other 
stakeholders to comprehend the economic feasibilities and development of viable 
innovative business models (Jiao & Evans, 2018). The B2U projects, of which some 
have moved to early commercialisation stages, offer evidence that innovative 
multi-stakeholder cross-sector relationships between previously isolated 
industries are forming (Gur et al., 2018). But it remains to be unearthed how the 
participating stakeholders in the nascent B2U industry can innovate their novel 
product life extension strategies into innovative business models that contribute 
towards functional sustainability.  
In this regard, the evolving research field of sustainable business models (SBMs) 
seem to be able to bridge these concerns as they have been identified to be a  
useful framework to create and push a ‘systems change’ towards ‘true’ 
sustainability in organisations (Bocken et al., 2015). SBMs use a firm-level and 
wider systems perspectives, with the triple bottom line at its core in order to 
measure performances and purposes of firms through including environment and 
society as key stakeholders (Stubbs & Cocklin 2008). SBMs have been defined as 
“…business models that incorporate pro-active multi-stakeholder management, 
the creation of monetary and non-monetary value for a broad range of 
stakeholders, and hold a long-term perspective” (Geissdoerfer et al., 2018, p403). 
Thus, SBMs will go beyond focusing on one sustainability innovation such as the 
circular economy, which has been found to usually prioritise economic and 

 
 
environmental sustainability where the social dimensions typically are absent 
(Geissdoerfer et al., 2017; Murray et al., 2017; Sauvé et al., 2016). 
The literature on SBMs further describes sub-categories, sub-types and generic 
strategies such as product service systems or base of the pyramid, which were 
examined in an extensive review by Bocken et al. (2014) and synthesized as the 
‘SBM Archetypes’ in order to advance towards a unifying research agenda. Follow-
up studies by Bocken et al. (2016) and Lüdeke-Freund et al. (2016) have further 
refined the concept by harmonising nine archetypes, divided into environmental, 
social and economic major innovation types. But, despite the widely 
acknowledged potential of the archetypes to develop SBMs in theory and practice 
coupled with pressing global societal issues such as pollution and the need to 
address global scarcity of resources, they have not been accepted by industries 
(Despeisse et al., 2017). This highlights the urgent need of empirical case study 
research in order to provide firms with frameworks and methods that include a 
more holistic view of how to include the three metrics of sustainability into the 
business innovation processes.  
Methodology 
As a result of the explorative nature and uncertainty of the research context, we 
make use of a qualitative research method, which is useful to study complex 
phenomena and new theory (Eisenhardt, 1989). As this research focuses on an 
area of knowledge where little is understood, an analytic inductive theory 
development approach is most suitable (Saunders, 2017). As a first step and due 
to the emerging major research field of SBMs, we reviewed relevant literature on 
the developing field of SBMs with a major focus on the SBM archetypes. We 
applied previously identified inclusion and exclusion criteria for our literature 
search such as to include peer reviewed studies with a distinct focus on SBMs and 
to exclude studies that have a primary research focus on sub-categories and sub-
fields of SBMs such as circular business models or the circular economy. Data were 
collected from peer-reviewed literature on SBMs through searching academic 
databases (e.g. Science Direct and Scopus) with a combination of keywords such 
as “sustainable business models”, “sustainable business model innovation” and 
“business models for sustainability”. 
The main part of this study is adopting a multiple-case study approach where the 
focus is within and across cases, which is a superior technique compare to single 
case studies as it allows to produce more replicable, robust and generalizable 

 
 
findings (Yin, 2003). The application of the multiple-case study research strategy 
fits particularly well for this study to comprehend the context and the activities 
taking place in the context of the different stakeholders involved and innovative 
business models deployed. This study applies the sampling technique of ‘critical 
cases’ that include those stakeholders (i.e. companies) that are participating in the 
evolving B2U industry through adapting (innovative) business model (Lee and 
Saunders, 2017). Data were collected from a variety of stakeholder roles such as 
EV manufactures, energy companies/B2U service & system providers, B2U start-
ups and battery recyclers. Fourteen semi-structured interviews were carried out 
with stakeholders in the EV industry to identify their current practices, views and 
experiences on the emerging B2U sector.  
Following the methodological procedure as set out by Leising et al. (2018), the 
stakeholder cases were analysed thematically through a document study as well 
as qualitative content analysis of all interview transcripts. To this end, we mainly 
integrated knowledge from the field of sustainable business models (SBMs), 
namely the previously discussed SBM archetypes (in the form of a qualitative 
content analysis) are adopted as a lens for data analysis to classify B2U stakeholder 
business sustainability-related activities into an suitable set of SBM archetypes 
and resulting (cross-case) sustainable value analysis. We used the most recently 
updated SBM archetypes (Yip and Bocken, 2018; Ritala et al., 2018; Lüdeke-Freund 
et al., 2016; Bocken et al. 2014) to investigate and structure current and 
prospective (sustainable) business models in our samples. Consequently, we 
based our analysis on the criteria and categories developed from the literature 
review on sustainable business models (SBMs), in particular the SBM archetypes. 
First, the SBM archetypes are defined and their occurrence in relation to B2U 
stakeholder sustainability business-related activities are identified and discussed. 
This will be followed by a first conceptualisation of a sustainable innovation 
business model (SIBM) framework in order to facilitate participating B2U 
stakeholders to maximise shared sustainable value of degraded EV batteries 
through identifying major sustainable innovation strategies as part of innovative 
and more effective SBMs. 
Preliminary Results & Conclusions 
This is the seminal part of an ongoing study that offers major implications to 
scholars, managers, and policy makers by opening up a fresh discussion on SBM 
adoption in practice. This is confirmed through rich in-depth interview data from 
EV B2U stakeholders. Through reporting first SBM behavioural patterns in the B2U 
industry, this study facilitates practitioners and managers in moving from 

 
 
theoretical to practical industrial sustainability as part of novel SBM approaches. 
The key contribution will be the conceptualisation of a sustainable innovation 
business model (SIBM) framework.  
In synthesising preliminary results from the set of multiple interviews, there is 
evidence that participating stakeholders in the emerging B2U market have started 
to engage in some form of sustainable value creation activities as part of their 
innovative sustainable business processes (i.e. SBM archetypes). Namely in 
applying degraded EV batteries at low cost in less demanding stationary storage 
systems in the energy markets. Further proof from our data demonstrates 
surprising differences in SBM archetype identification and occurrence among B2U 
stakeholder activities, which has a direct impact on the overall contribution to 
functional sustainable development. This has been echoed by Lüdeke-Freund et 
al. (2016) stating, “…indeed, every single archetype can contribute to sustainable 
development, but their potential effects will be more powerful if they are 
combined” (p57).  
Our case samples provide key insights that there appears to be the existence of 
either none of the SBM archetype(s), a combination within one sustainable 
innovation archetype (e.g. environmental innovation) or sustainable innovations 
at all three sustainability parameters (environmental, social and economic). For 
example, it was unearthed that EV companies and energy storage/B2U service & 
system providers appear to innovate at all three SBM archetype levels. Both 
stakeholders have an immense interest in the success of a potential B2U market 
as cheap batteries are becoming available for the energy markets while EV 
companies can generate additional revenues that in turn could lower total vehicle 
prices and overall sustainability performance. On the other hand, we found that 
in the case of recycling companies, it seems that none of the SBM archetypes can 
be related and identified. Recyclers indicated no strong interest in the direct 
participation of an emerging B2U market but highlighted their interest for battery 
recycling (after 2nd or even 3rd life) to produce battery active materials. At this 
point, we argue that such business activities can be related to the entire business 
eco-system and conclude that there appears to be a lack of willingness towards 
functional corporate sustainable development in the EV sector.  
Secondly and building upon discussed relevant literature in the field and key 
results from this study, we aim to go a step further and conceptualise a sustainable 
innovation business model (SIBM) framework for the B2U industry. This includes 
the impact of the macro environment of the EV industry (Reinhardt et al., 2016) 

 
 
as well as the SBM archetypes as major sustainability innovations towards the 
micro level (business model), which could ultimately transform into a business 
case for sustainability. We believe that this is an interdisciplinary effort that will 
revolutionise a whole business and its practises towards a sustainable future. 
Managerial implications reshape the way managers view strategies and tactics in 
this market, whereas we challenge current theoretical perspectives with fresh 
insights and new research streams on sustainable business model (SBM) adoption 
in the rapidly emerging electric vehicle battery second use (EV B2U) industry.   
References 
Ahmadian, A., Sedghi, M., Elkamel, A., Fowler, M. & Aliakbar Golkar, M. (2018) 
Plug-in electric vehicle batteries degradation modelling for smart grid 
studies: review, assessment and conceptual framework. Renewable & 
Sustainable Energy Reviews, 81, 2609-2624. 
Bocken, N.M.P., Weissbrod, I., & Tennant, M. (2016) Business model 
experimentation for sustainability. In: Setchi, R., Howlett, R.J., Liu, Y. & 
Theobald, P. (eds.) Sustainable Design and Manufacturing. Springer 
International Publishing, Cham, Switzerland, pp. 297–306. 
Bocken, N.M.P., Rana, P. & Short, S.W. (2015) Value mapping for sustainable 
business thinking. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering, 32, 67–
81.  
Bocken, N.M.P., Short, S.W., Rana, P. & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Prodution, 65, 42–56. 
Despeisse, M., Yang, M., Evans, S., Ford, S. & Minshall, T. (2017) Sustainable value 
roadmapping framework for additive manufacturing. Procedia CIRP, 61 594–
599.  
Eisenhardt, K. M. (1989) Building theories from case study research. Academy of 
management review, 14(4), 532-550.  
Geissdoerfer, M., Vladimirova, D. & Evans, S. (2018) Sustainable business model 
innovation: a review. Journal of Cleaner Production. 198, 401-416.  
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N.M.P. & Hultink, E.J. (2017) The circular 
economy – a new sustainability paradigm? Journal of Cleaner Production. 
143, 757–768.  
Gur, K., Chatzikyriakou, D., Baschet, C. & Salomon, M. (2018) The reuse of 
electrified vehicle batteries as a means of integrating renewable energy into 
the European electricity grid: a policy and market analysis. Energy Policy, 
113, 535-545.  

 
 
Heymans, C., Walker, S.B., Young, S.B. & Fowler, M. (2014) Economic analysis of 
second use electric vehicle batteries for residential energy storage and load-
levelling. Energy Policy, 71, 22–30.  
Jiao, N. & Evans, S. (2016a) Secondary use of electric vehicle batteries and 
potential impacts on business models. Journal of Industrial and Production 
Engineering, 33, 348–354.  
Jiao, N. & Evans, S. (2016b) Business models for sustainability: the case of second-
life electric vehicle batteries. Procedia CIRP, 40, 250–255.  
Jiao, N. & Evans, S. (2018) Business models for repurposing a second-life for retired 
electric vehicle batteries. In: Pistoia, G. & Liaw, B. (eds.) Behaviour of 
Lithium-Ion Batteries in Electric Vehicles. Springer International Publishing, 
Cham, Switzerland, pp. 323–344 
Lee, B. & Saunders, M.N.K. (2017) Conducting case study research for business and 
management students. SAGE, Los Angeles. 
Leising, E., Quist, J. & Bocken, N.M.P. (2018) Circular Economy in the building 
sector: three cases and a collaboration tool. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
176, 976–989.  
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Massa, L., Bocken, N.M.P., Brent, A.C. & Musango, J. (2016) 
Business models for shared value: main report. Cape Town: Network for 
Business Sustainability South Africa. 
Murray, A., Skene, K. & Haynes, K. (2017) The circular economy: an 
interdisciplinary exploration of the concept and application in a global 
context. Journal of Business Ethics, 140, 369–380.  
Neubauer, J. & Pesaran, A. (2011) The ability of battery second use strategies to 
impact plug-in electric vehicle prices and serve utility energy storage 
applications. Journal of Power Sources, 196, 10351–10358.  
Podias, A., Pfrang, A., Di Persio, F., Kriston, A., Bobba, S., Mathieux, F., Messagie, 
M. & Boon-Brett, L. (2018) Sustainability assessment of second use 
applications of automotive batteries: ageing of Li-ion battery cells in 
automotive and grid-scale applications. World Electric Vehicle Journal, 9 (2), 
1-15. 
Reinhardt, R., García, B.A., Canals Casals, L. & Gasso-Domingo, S. (2019) A critical 
evaluation of cathode materials for lithium-ion electric vehicle batteries. In: 
Muñoz, J.L.A., Blanco, J.L.Y. & Capuz-Rizo, S.F. (Eds.) Project Management 
and Engineering Research. Springer International Publishing, Cham, 
Switzerland, pp. 99–110.  
Reinhardt, R., García, B.A., Gassó-Domingo, S. & Christodoulou, I. (2017) Macro 
environmental analysis of the electric vehicle battery second use market. In: 
14th International Conference on the European Energy Market, 6-9 June 
2017, Dresden, Germany, pp. 1-6, IEEE.  

 
 
Reinhardt, R., García, B.A., Casals, L.C. & Gassó-Domingo, S. (2016) Critical 
evaluation of European Union legislation on the second use of degraded 
traction batteries in: 13th International Conference on the European Energy 
Market 2016, 6-9 June 2016, Porto, Portugal, pp. 1-6, IEEE.  
Ritala, P., Huotari, P., Bocken, N., Albareda, L. & Puumalainen, K. (2018) 
Sustainable business model adoption among S&P 500 firms: A longitudinal 
content analysis study. Journal of Cleaner Production, 170, 216–226. 
Saunders, M.N.K. (2017) Doing research in business and management. Pearson, 
Harlow. 
Sauvé, S., Bernard, S. & Sloan, P. (2016) Environmental sciences, sustainable 
development and circular economy: alternative concepts for trans-
disciplinary research. Environmental Development 17, 48–56.  
Stubbs, W. & Cocklin, C. (2008) Conceptualizing a ‘sustainability business model’. 
Organization & Environment, 21, 103–127. 
United Nations Secretariat. (2018) The Sustainable Development Goals Report 
2018. 
Available 
from: 
https://www.un.org/development/desa/publications/the-sustainable-
development-goals-report-2018.html [Accessed 31st January 2019]. 
Yin, R.K. (2003) Case study research - design and methods. 3rd ed. London, SAGE. 
Yip, A.W.H. & Bocken, N.M.P. (2018) Sustainable business model archetypes for 
the banking industry. Journal of Cleaner Production, 174, 150–169.  
 
  
 

 
 
Sustainable business models and 
sustainable supply chain management 
- Establishing linkages 
 
Simon Norris, Julia Zufall, Stefan Schaltegger, Ilka Weissbrod 
Leuphana University of Lüneburg, Germany 
 
Abstract 
Sustainable business models (SBM) and sustainable supply chain management 
(SSCM) are considered promising approaches for managing sustainability issues. 
Although the relevance of supply chains has been acknowledged for business 
models, there is a lack of clarity about the interdependencies between an SBM 
and the management of supply chains. This conceptual paper links the two 
concepts by examining the intersections between SBMs and supply chain aspects. 
The analysis provides arguments as to why supply chains and their actors need to 
be considered in SBMs. Current SBM conceptions neither reflect the complexity 
sufficiently well that results from the dispersion of relevant stakeholders across 
multiple tiers of the supply chain nor their contribution to value creation of the 
focal company. To remedy this, an integrated conceptual framework is proposed 
structuring the SBM concept’s value exchanges and stakeholder relationships 
across multiple tiers. One implication from this is that some stakeholders are 
engaged indirectly through intermediaries such as first-tier and lower-tier 
suppliers. By introducing the special role first-tier suppliers take in engaging 
stakeholders beyond the focal firm’s direct reach into the SBM discourse, the 
paper provides answers as to how the SC could be considered by a focal firm. Here, 
the focal firm needs to weigh possible strategies and arrangements carefully based 
on contingency factors prevalent in its SC. While the framework is generic and 
parsimonious, it can and needs to be adapted to the specific focal firm’s context 
when used for the analysis of its SBM. 
 
 

 
 
Keywords  
sustainable business model, sustainable supply chain management, conceptual 
article 
 
 

 
 
Towards a new business model from 
aid to social entrepreneurship 
Rethinking the role of business in development  
cooperation in Sub-Saharan Africa  
 
Joyce Soila W. Treptow1  
 
1Bonn-Rhein-Sieg University of Applied Sciences 
 
* Joyce.treptow@gmail.com 
 
+This short paper is part of an on-going PhD research project. I am grateful for 
the insights and expertise provided by Dr. Karl Kirschner and Mrs Regina 
Brautlacht (Bonn-Rhein-Sieg University of Applied Sciences) 
 
Abstract  
What can non-governmental development organizations (NGDOs) do to improve 
how aid is used and the resulting outcome within Sub-Saharan Africa? 
Poverty, rapid population growth and slow economic growth remain big 
challenges in Sub-Saharan Africa despite receiving substantial foreign aid in the 
last six decades. In the same period diverse poverty-reduction policies and 
strategies were implemented, yet Sub-Saharan Africa remains one of the world’s 
poorest regions.  
For NGDOs to achieve their goals in Sub-Saharan Africa, they need to understand 
the interplay between drivers of poverty and the contextual dimensions. Herein, 
we focus on the business models used by NGDOs and their effectiveness. The 
international development landscape is transforming due to lower aid volumes, 
increased competition for funds and new actors such as firms and philanthropists. 
Therefore NGDOs are facing the challenge to explore and pursue alternative 
development models that enable them to realise their goals. As social 

 
 
entrepreneurship pursues triple bottom line approach (economic, social and 
ecological goals), it has emerged as a promising comprehensive development 
model for Sub-Saharan Africa.  
As a work in progress, this paper seeks to evaluate selected entrepreneurial 
projects supported by donors in Kenya. We explore if social entrepreneurship can 
be used as a business model for NGDOs and identify possible success factors that 
contribute to financially viable projects. NGDOs need a shift from the old 
‘redistribution’ paradigm” (Fowler, 2000, p. 637) to a market-based paradigm. 
Social entrepreneurships would be a fundamental different approach for reducing 
poverty, empowering communities being served and improving Africa’s economy. 
Keywords 
Sustainable economic development, social entrepreneurship, NGDOs, Sub-
Saharan Africa, aid effectiveness 
Introduction 
Sub-Saharan Africa continues to face major challenges (e.g. extreme poverty, 
conflicts) despite fifty decades of noteworthy progress and adoption of poverty 
alleviation measures.  
 
Figure 1: Number of population living in extreme poverty (i.e less than USD 1.90 per day) 
by world region, own compilation, data: (online analysis tool [PovcalNet], 2019) 
 
According to the World Bank, Sub-Saharan Africa accounts for the largest share of 
foreign assistance. The region received an estimated USD 9.5 billion in aid in 2005. 
In the same year Asia and the remaining collective regions each received USD 6.8 
billion and USD 5.2 billion, respectively (Hertog & Cohen, 2015). There is a 

 
 
discrepancy in Sub-Saharan Africa which leads to the question if more aid in the 
region also means high levels of poverty as illustrated on Figure 1. 
In the last three decades, there have been diversified approaches for poverty 
alleviation through the introduction of integrated global objectives such as the 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs form a collective a blueprint for 
fighting poverty and achieving sustainable development globally. As such the SDGs 
recognise social entrepreneurship approach as an enabling and empowering 
instrument that can attain sustainable development in the long-term (Division for 
Sustainable Development, 2017). 
Social entrepreneurship is an innovative entity that is either run for-profit or non-
profit and can also be organised as a hybrid venture that uses profitability to 
advance social and environmental objectives (Cho & Sultana, 2015; Navarrete 
Moreno & Agapitova, 2017). Some benefits of social entrepreneurships include 
having a strong presence by engaging communities. Due to their flexible and 
innovative business models, social entrepreneurships challenge traditional 
businesses by introducing new products and services, therefore increasing 
competitiveness (Navarrete Moreno & Agapitova, 2017). 
From our analysis we propose that NGDOs that want to achieve significant 
development impact and create value in Sub-Saharan Africa should support and 
implement profit-generating (i.e. social entrepreneurial) activities. This way they 
would achieve both their social, economic and environmental goals.  
Social entrepreneurships vary according to the approach and strategy they follow. 
Accordingly, NGDOs should consider the unique and diverse factors of the African 
environment to achieve sustainable and financially viable entrepreneurial 
activities (Mair, 2010; Navarrete Moreno & Agapitova, 2017).  
Social entrepreneurships differ across countries as they reflect the complex 
political and social-economic structure of each country (Warnecke, 2018). The 
paper focuses on social entrepreneurship and NGDOs in Kenya.  As of 2017 Kenya 
had a total population of 50 million inhabitants with an annual population growth 
of 2.5%. GDP (The World Bank, 2019). Around 37 per cent of the population lives 
on less than USD 1.9 per day and the employment and inequality levels are 
relatively high. Kenya has a dynamic private sector, highly skilled workforce, high 
potential for development (4.9 per cent GDP annual growth rate in 2017) which 
are some of the enabling factors of the local social entrepreneurial community 

 
 
(Navarrete Moreno & Agapitova, 2017; The World Bank, 2019). Given the 
combination of these factors, Kenya presents a unique context for social 
entrepreneurship. The results of these paper are helpful in identifying generalities 
of social entrepreneurships in Southern Africa. 
Purpose  
The purpose of this research project is to explore to which extent NGDOs can 
implement social entrepreneurship as a tool to promote sustainable development 
Sub-Saharan Africa and justify their purpose.   
The research question is: “Which are the critical success factors that contribute to 
sustainable/viable projects in the beyond aid period.” The paper analyses the 
Kenyan social entrepreneurial eco-system with on support programmes by foreign 
institutions and examines the factors that determine the survival of a social 
entrepreneurial without external  means. Furthermore, the paper assesses which 
steps need to be taken at each level of development for an entrepreneurial 
venture to be self-sustaining and eventually make donor support redundant. 
In this context support include programmes that empower entrepreneurial 
communities and individuals by providing financial and intangible activities such 
as trainings, access to advisory and networking services (Cho, 2015; Darko & 
Koranteng, 2015). 
State of research in the field 
Social entrepreneurships as a driver of sustainable development 
Over the last 30 years, social entrepreneurships have become a global 
phenomenon. Despite the lack of a single definition, there is rather a distinctive 
consensus in literature that social entrepreneurs promote individual development 
by integrating profitability with social or environmental aspects (Bacq & Janssen, 
2011; Rivera-Santos, Holt, Littlewood, & Kolk, 2015; Santos, 2012; Zahra, 
Gedajlovic, Neubaum, & Shulman, 2009).  
Even though, the terms social enterprises and social entrepreneurship are used 
interchangeably in literature and practice, this paper recognises innovation and 
risk as key drivers of entrepreneurship (Luke & Chu, 2013; Schoar, 2010). In Sub-
Saharan Africa the informal sector contributes to the great share of the 

 
 
subsistence or “necessity entrepreneurs ” (Schoar, 2010, pp. 58–59) in Sub-
Saharan Africa. This micro-operations serve as an alternative employment 
opportunity to the owner and are not founded with the intention of scaling up. 
The paper investigates “transitional social entrepreneurs” who create business 
opportunities that exceed subsistence needs and provide jobs and income for 
others (de Mel, McKenzie, & Woodruff, 2010; Schoar, 2010).  
By combining financial and social objectives, social entrepreneurships have the 
potential to stimulate local socio-economic status and self-reliance at both 
individual and societal level. They contribute to achieving multiple SDGs 1, 2, 3 4 
and 10 (Le Goff & Dupré, 2017).  
 
Figure 2 Sustainable Development Goals  
 
Source: (Division for Sustainable Development, 2017). 
According to estimates by the World Bank, the relative population among youth 
(i.e. 15-24 year olds) is expected to increase by 44 percent between 2015 and 
2030. This means that social entrepreneurial endeavours are led by young people, 
it contributes to youth development and empowerment (Hertog & Cohen, 2015). 
These arguments suggest that social entrepreneurships are models with the 
potential to provide solutions and address service delivery gaps in novel ways for 
different target groups (Navarrete Moreno & Agapitova, 2017). 
Social entrepreneurship as an innovative business model for NGDOs in Sub-
Saharan Africa 

 
 
The classic form of granting foreign aid to developing countries has faced fierce 
debates from within and out of the sector for its ineffectiveness. This is “the extent 
to which foreign aid dollars actually achieve their goals of reducing poverty, 
malnutrition, disease, and death” (Easterly & Pfutze, 2008, p. 29). 
Social entrepreneurial activities in Sub-Saharan Africa are currently not fully 
exploiting their potentials with 23 countries being classified among the 30 worst 
within the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business index. Social entrepreneurs face 
major challenges such as lack of regulation and recognition, weak infrastructure, 
high cost of capital (Navarrete Moreno & Agapitova, 2017; Rivera-Santos et al., 
2015). This research project seeks to present social entrepreneurial as an 
alternative multi-dimensional business model for that NGDOs in Africa. 
Contextual and environmental influence of the Sub-Saharan African environment 
on social entrepreneurship  
Researchers have identified the influence of geography on social entrepreneurship 
which is relevant to understand issues such as impact, characteristics and drivers 
(Bacq & Janssen, 2011; Littlewood & Holt, 2018; Mair & Martí, 2006; Rivera-Santos 
et al., 2015; Zahra et al., 2009). In their review, Bacq and Janssen (2011) 
accentuate that the characteristics of the operating environment are important 
for social entrepreneurs. There is, therefore, a definite need for research on social 
entrepreneurship in Sub-Saharan Africa as this is relatively sparse.  
Sub-Saharan Africa exhibits interesting characteristics and dimensions, such as 
extreme poverty, institutional voids, vulnerable environmental resources, and 
marginalised communities (Rivera-Santos et al., 2015). Thus, exploring the 
relationship between the specificities of the Sub-Saharan African environment and 
social entrepreneurship is likely to provide novel insights for researchers and 
practitioners.  
Motivation 
Interventions to promote entrepreneurial activities in developing countries are 
increasingly being implemented. Nevertheless, evidence on the effectiveness of 
entrepreneurship programs is still thin and the findings of impact evaluations 
differ widely (Cho, 2015).  

 
 
Secondly, previous research has paid limited attention to the particularities of the 
African environment and its influence on the success of the entrepreneurial 
activity. Hence, this paper responds and builds on the work of Rivera-Santos et al. 
(2015) . It pays greater attention to the environment and contextual dimensions 
of social entrepreneurship across Sub-Saharan Africa. Finally, the project responds 
to calls to incorporate African insights into the academic debate in management 
(Rivera-Santos et al., 2015). 
Design, methodology and approach 
Based on the knowledge that social entrepreneurships are complex depending 
on social experiences and environmental context (Bacq & Janssen, 2011; Luke 
& Chu, 2013; Rivera-Santos et al., 2015; Zahra et al., 2009) this research project 
draws upon a multiple case studies.  
The paper examines the impact of different entrepreneurship programs. It also 
assesses the effects of design factors from those of context and study 
characteristics. Finally, it draws together existing knowledge and approaches 
across projects (and phases) to define and explore social-entrepreneurial 
projects within the African entrepreneurial eco-system. By using multiple cases 
studies, the research project highlights differences and similarities between the 
selected projects and at the same time enables to analyse the data both within 
each situation and across situations.  
Social entrepreneurship projects are diverse and vary among others, by objectives, 
type of intervention (e.g. training, financing, counselling), target groups (women, 
youth) and implementation arrangements (Cho & Honorati, 2014; de Mel et al., 
2010). Hence, the first level of the research will be to select a number of 
entrepreneurial projects and create a library of case studies in Kenya according to 
the following criteria. 1) Formal qualification: They are formal and vary in age (as 
of six months), sizes and mission, economic foundation 2) Funding schemes: This 
will differentiate between supporting programmes such as capacity development, 
mentoring, and facilitating funding or access to funding (Le Goff & Dupré, 2017). 
Foreign support is offered by NGDOs or networks and accelerators such as the 
SEED initiative, Ashoka Foundation or the Schwab Foundation. 
Further, secondary sources, such as existing project documentation, annual, and 
monitoring and evaluation reports will be used to supplement and substantiate 
gathered information.  

 
 
Research limitations  
The results are limited to pre-selected projects with foreign funding, thus findings 
will not be fully representative and cannot be generalised in different contexts e.g. 
geographical location, source of funding and mission.  
Cultural and structural barriers (language and security) will limit data collection to 
selected parts of the country. There might be difficulties to access data as they are 
dependent on the project managers’ readiness to collaborate. 
Implications 
Given Africa’s diversity and problems – poverty, government and market failures, 
large informal economy – this research project contributes to entrepreneurship 
studies and development economics in Sub-Saharan Africa in at least three ways.  
Firstly, the project acknowledges and highlights Sub-Saharan Africa as an 
interesting research environment from economic and entrepreneurial 
perspectives. It adds to understanding social entrepreneurship from a non-
Western context and underscores the added value of incorporating African data 
into management literature. The findings will contribute to discussions and 
provide novel insights on NGDOs, social entrepreneurship, and their relationship 
within the African context. 
A further contribution of this project lies in the coverage of entrepreneurial 
projects in Sub-Saharan Africa and the multiple case study methodology. There 
are several foreign-funded entrepreneurship programs that are being 
implemented in Sub-Saharan Africa. However, only a few attempts have been 
made to review the impacts of such interventions to synthesize emerging lessons 
and develop encompassing strategies for the period after aid has been provided. 
By using multiple cases, the project will contributes to the external validity of given 
approaches in social entrepreneurship programs, which would otherwise be 
difficult assess within a single study (Cho & Honorati, 2014). 
Understanding the social entrepreneurship landscape in Sub-Saharan Africa will 
provide valuable information for policy makers, NDGOs, investors and future 
social entrepreneurs, thus providing a fresh approach to poverty alleviation. The 
research will underline the individuality of social entrepreneurships which are 
based on the uniqueness of circumstances - resources, geographic location, or 
culture. 

 
 
To Conclude 
Social entrepreneurship might not be the panacea to poverty in Sub-Saharan 
Africa but it is a driver of Africa’s economic development. While NGDOs are facing 
a dynamic and competitive environment in Sub-Saharan Africa, they need to 
modify and re-adjust their objectives and business approach in order to perish 
(Aldaba, Antezana, Valderrama, & Fowler, 2000; Easterly & Pfutze, 2008). 
The social entrepreneurship model is a promising model for NGDOS which so far 
have been cautious in utilising business management tools and concepts. To be 
able to use social entrepreneurship as a model, NGDOs need to understand its 
interplay with the underlying social, economic, political and institutional factors of 
a country (Mair, 2010).  
This research project seeks to provide a broader perspective on the landscape of 
social entrepreneurship in Sub-Saharan Africa presenting some opportunities, and 
gaps in understanding the as-is situation. With this contribution, with this paper 
the author wishes to fuel such future theoretical and research in the ﬁeld of 
sustainable entrepreneurship and the development of sustainable business 
models for NGDOs in Sub-Saharan Africa. 
References 
 
Aldaba, F., Antezana, P., Valderrama, M., & Fowler, A. (2000). NGO strategies 
beyond aid: Perspectives from Central and South America and the 
Philippines. 
Third 
World 
Quarterly, 
21(4), 
669–683. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/01436590050079056 
Bacq, S., & Janssen, F. (2011). The multiple faces of social entrepreneurship: A 
review of definitional issues based on geographical and thematic criteria. 
Entrepreneurship 
& 
Regional 
Development, 
23(5-6), 
373–403. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/08985626.2011.577242 
Cho, S., & Sultana, R. (2015). Journey from NGO to Sustainable Social Enterprise: 
Acceleratory Organizational Factors of BRAC. Asian Social Work and Policy 
Review, 9(3), 293–306. https://doi.org/10.1111/aswp.12069 
Cho, Y. (2015). Entrepreneurship for the poor in developing countries: Well-
designed entrepreneurship programs show promise for improving earnings 
and livelihoods of poor workers. Retrieved from The World Bank; IZA – 
Institute of Labor Economics website: YoonYoung Cho  

 
 
Cho, Y., & Honorati, M. (2014). Entrepreneurship programs in developing 
countries: A meta regression analysis. Labour Economics, 28, 110–130. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.labeco.2014.03.011 
Darko, E., & Koranteng, K. (2015). Social Enterprise Landscape in Ghana. Accra.  
De Mel, S., McKenzie, D., & Woodruff, C. (2010). Who are the Microenterprise 
Owners?: Evidence from Sri Lanka on Tokman versus De Soto. In J. Lerner & 
S. Stern (Eds.), Innovation Policy and the Economy (pp. 63–87). University of 
Chicago Press. 
Division for Sustainable Development. (2017). Sustainable Development 
Knowledge 
Platform. 
Retrieved 
from 
https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/resourcelibrary 
Easterly, W., & Pfutze, T. (2008). Where Does the Money Go? Best and Worst 
Practices in Foreign Aid. Journal of Economic Perspectives, 22(2), 29–52. 
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1156890 
Fowler, A. (2000). NGDOS as a moment in history: Beyond aid to social 
entrepreneurship or civic innovation. Third World Quarterly, 21(1), 637–654. 
Hertog, S., & Cohen, B. (2015). Population 2030: Demographic challenges and 
opportunities for sustainable development planning (Economic & Social 
Affairs). New York. Retrieved from United Nations, Department of Economic 
and 
Social 
Affairs, 
Population 
Division 
website: 
https://www.un.org/en/development/desa/population/publications/pdf/tr
ends/Population2030.pdf  
Le Goff, D., & Dupré, M. (2017). Addressing the Needs of Micro and Social 
Entrepreneurs 
in 
the 
Energy 
Field 
in 
Developing 
Countries. 
https://doi.org/10.1787/651864166021 
Littlewood, D., & Holt, D. (2018). Social Entrepreneurship in South Africa: Exploring 
the Influence of Environment. Business & Society, 57(3), 525–561. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0007650315613293 
Luke, B., & Chu, V. (2013). Social enterprise versus social entrepreneurship: An 
examination of the ‘why’ and ‘how’ in pursuing social change. International 
Small 
Business 
Journal, 
31(7), 
764–784. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/0266242612462598 
Mair, J. (2010). Social Entrepreneurship: Taking stock and looking ahead (Working 
Paper No. WP-8888). Barcelona.  
Mair, J., & Martí, I. (2006). Social entrepreneurship research: A source of 
explanation, prediction, and delight. Journal of World Business, 41(1), 36–
44. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jwb.2005.09.002 
Navarrete Moreno, C., & Agapitova, N. (2017). Social Enterprise Ecosystem Country 
Profile Kenya. Washington DC.  

 
 
Online analysis tool. (2019). Regional aggregation using 2011 PPP and $1.9/day 
Poverty line Regional aggregation using 2011 PPP and $1.9/day poverty line. 
Retrieved 
from 
http://iresearch.worldbank.org/PovcalNet/povDuplicateWB.aspx 
Rivera-Santos, M., Holt, D., Littlewood, D., & Kolk, A. (2015). Social 
Entrepreneurship in Sub-Saharan Africa. Academy of Management 
Perspectives, 29(1), 72–91. https://doi.org/10.5465/amp.2013.0128 
Santos, F. M. (2012). A Positive Theory of Social Entrepreneurship. Journal of 
Business Ethics, 111(3), 335–351. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-012-
1413-4 
Schoar, A. (2010). The Divide between Subsistence and Transformational 
Entrepreneurship: Volume 10 (2010), Josh Lerner and Scott Stern, editors (p. 
57 - 81). In J. Lerner & S. Stern (Eds.), Innovation Policy and the Economy 
(Vol. 10, pp. 57–81). University of Chicago Press. 
Warnecke, T. (2018). Social Entrepreneurship in China:: Driving Institutional 
Change. 
Journal 
of 
Economic 
Issues, 
52(2), 
368–377. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/00213624.2018.1469866 
The World Bank. (2019). World Development Indicators: Country Profile - Kenya. 
Retrieved from https://data.worldbank.org/country/kenya 
Zahra, S. A., Gedajlovic, E., Neubaum, D. O., & Shulman, J. M. (2009). A typology 
of social entrepreneurs: Motives, search processes and ethical challenges. 
Journal 
of 
Business 
Venturing, 
24(5), 
519–532. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusvent.2008.04.007 
 
 

 
 
The Value of “Enough” 
Sufficiency-based Consumer Practices and  
Value Creation in Business Models 
 
Maren Ingrid Kropfeld1,*, André Reichel2 
 
1 Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg, Germany; 
2 ISM International School of Management, Stuttgart, Germany 
*maren.ingrid.kropfeld@uol.de 
 
Abstract 
This conceptual paper explores a new theoretical framework of how value 
creation in business models can address sufficiency-based consumer practices. 
Applying social practice theory reveals levers in terms of materials, competences 
and meanings to support sufficiency-based lifestyles. The key challenge is to 
include consumers as active contributors, prosumers, in the value creation 
process. 
Keywords 
sustainability, sufficiency, business model, value creation, social practice theory 
 
Introduction 
As green consumption and eco-modernism so far have failed to significantly 
reduce the ecological impact of consumption, new approaches are needed to 
meet sustainability criteria. Next to technology-focused efficiency (relative 
reduction of energy and material use) and consistency (cradle-to-cradle design) 
approaches, sufficiency is a specific kind of behavior-based sustainability strategy 
that addresses how to make do with less (Reichel, 2013, 2018a; Rockström et al., 
2009; Seidl & Zahrnt, 2013; Spangenberg & Lorek, 2019; Wilts & von Gries, 2015). 

 
 
Sufficiency-based businesses can reduce negative impacts on the ecosystem, 
while at the same time deliver more prosperity with less need for economic and 
material growth (Sachs, 2015; Schneidewind & Palzkill, 2012; Stengel, 2011). They 
focus on demand-side moderation by attempting to reduce end-user consumption 
(Bocken & Short, 2016; Griese, Wawer, & Böcher, 2016). As consumption is tied to 
everyday practices of consumers, it is essential to understand what constitutes 
viable sufficiency-based consumer practices and what part the business model of 
a company plays in order to facilitate them. 
So far, the role of business models in the dissemination of sufficiency-based 
consumer practices has for the most part remained unexplored. A deeper analysis 
of how elements of a business model have to be reconsidered when it 
incorporates and addresses sufficiency is needed to design, adapt and change 
business models to support a social transition towards strong sustainability. Value 
creation is not only the centerpiece of business model research, but together with 
value proposition especially related to influencing and interacting with consumer 
practices, as will be elaborated below (Freudenreich, Lüdeke-Freund, Schaltegger, 
2019). As a starting point, this paper will therefore focus on the implications of a 
sufficiency-based approach in business models for its value proposition and 
creation. Drawing on literature on sustainable business models, value creation, 
sufficiency and social practice theory, this conceptional paper explores a new 
theoretical framework of how sufficiency-focused value creation can support 
sufficiency-based consumer practices and which challenges a reorientation 
towards such practices poses for the business model. 
Theoretical Background 
Sufficiency-based Consumption and Lifestyles 
Sufficiency derives from the Latin word sufficere, meaning to suffice or to be 
enough. In the sustainability discourse it is generally understood as changes in 
consumption patterns that help to stay within the ecological capacity of the 
planet, while the benefit aspects of consumption change (Fischer & Grießhammer, 
2013). For some, the benefit in terms of practical utility or symbolic meaning might 
increase, for others this perceived benefit will decrease. Sufficiency-based 
consumption can be viewed from two different angles: firstly, as refraining from 
consumption without substitution and reducing resource-use at all costs; secondly 
as a lifestyle where resources are used in a sustainable and regeneratable manner. 
The second view allows for substitutions of practices and qualitative modifications 

 
 
of consumption levels and is therefore seen as the more realistic one in nowadays 
economy and society (Lütge, 2013; Paech, 2007; Speck, 2016). 
Lifestyles represent the way we prefer to live, spend our time, interact with others, 
indicate where we live, where we shop, and what we consume (Backhaus et al., 
2012). They are the “integration of social practices but also […] the story which the 
actor tells about it.” (Spaargaren & Van Vliet, 2018, p. 55) Sufficiency lifestyles are 
found in research on consumer behavior as frugal consumption, abnegation, the 
simple life movement and other lifestyles that live independently from the market 
(Linz et al., 2002; Sachs, 1993; Spangenberg & Lorek, 2019). Although there is not 
one definition for a sufficiency-based lifestyle, for the purpose of this paper, the 
following understanding is adapted: A sufficiency-based lifestyle is characterized 
by simultaneously reducing energy and resource-use as well as increasing life 
satisfaction. It is defined by values such as humility, consistency of one’s own 
behavior, self-responsibility, justice and the conviction that less consumption 
means more life quality (Kleinhückelkotten, 2005). A sufficiency-based lifestyle 
aims at voluntarily changing, restricting, or replacing resource-intensive practices 
and reducing the demand for resource-intensive goods and services (Leng, Schild, 
& Hofmann, 2018; Stengel, 2011). Such sufficiency-based practices may include 
exchanging, repairing, sharing, renting, and gifting (Fischer & Grießhammer, 2013; 
Speck, 2016). 
The Ecological Impact of Sufficiency-based Consumer Lifestyles 
Sufficiency on a household level means implementing modified consumption 
practices in various household-related activities, such as mobility, food, grocery 
shopping, building, living, and leisure (Lukas, 2015). Consumers attempt to reduce 
negative ecological and social impacts of these household practices within 
established social structures (Speck, 2016). This can for example involve 
commuting by bike or public transportation instead of using the car, living in co-
housing facilities and reducing the consumption of pollutive food such as 
processed meat and dairy products (Leitner & Littig, 2015; Profijt, 2018; Stengel, 
2011). 
Lukas (2015) showed that sufficiency-oriented households have a significantly 
lower material foot-print per year68 than conventional households. This applies 
                                                 
68 according to MIPS = life-cycle wide material input per unit of service to estimate the input 
oriented environmental impact potential of a product (Lettenmeier, Rohn, Liedtke, & Schmidt-
Bleek, 2009) 

 
 
especially for mobility, nutrition and leisure, although their total footprint still 
ranges above the recommended level for a truly sustainable consumption 
(Lettenmeier, Liedtke, & Rohn, 2014). A conventional one-person-household has 
a material footprint of 2,666 tons per year, while the maximum for a sustainable 
footprint lies at around seven to eight tons per year per person (Lettenmeier et 
al., 2014). A sufficiency-oriented household’s footprint ranges around 36 tons per 
year. Lifestyles of voluntary simplicity, as an anticonsumption lifestyle aiming at 
reducing one’s clutter in life and obtain life satisfaction by cultivating 
nonmaterialistic values, even showed an overall lower ecological impact than 
environmentally concerned consumers (Iwata, 1999; Kropfeld, Nepomuceno, & 
Dantas, 2018). This supports the assumption that sufficiency-related lifestyles are 
more sustainable concerning their resource consumption than common, and 
presumably even ‘green’ consumer lifestyles. 
Sufficiency-based Business Models 
Companies can support lifestyles striving towards strong sustainability, such as 
sufficiency-based lifestyles, by offering suitable products and services (cf. Profijt, 
2018). For that they will have to adjust their business model accordingly. A 
sustainable business model “helps describing, analyzing, managing, and 
communicating (i) a company’s sustainable value proposition to its customers, and 
all other stakeholders, (ii) how it creates and delivers this value, (iii) and how it 
captures economic value while maintaining or regenerating natural, social, and 
economic capital beyond its organizational boundaries.” (Schaltegger, Hansen, & 
Lüdeke-Freund, 2016, p. 6). Encouraging sufficiency can be understood as one of 
the sustainable business model archetypes, next to e.g. maximizing material and 
energy efficiency or creating value from waste (Bocken, Short, Rana, & Evans, 
2014). Further types of sufficiency-based business model approaches according to 
Bocken et al. (2014) are for example consumer education, demand management, 
and premium branding. 
Sufficiency as a business strategy aims not only at reducing resource consumption 
on a corporate level, but foremost at providing products and services that 
moderate end-user consumption to encourage consumers to do more with less 
(Bocken & Short, 2016; Gossen & Schrader, 2018; Reichel, 2013). This includes 
reducing consumers’ absolute material and energy use, while avoiding sufficiency-
related rebound effects (Reichel, 2018b). In our current market economy, 
sufficiency-based business models are best understood as business architectures 
that allow putting a sufficiency strategy into operation. For that, sufficiency-based 

 
 
business models strive towards sufficiency while they act within a certain corridor 
that is framed by a minimum of financial stability and social justice, and a 
maximum of sustainable ecological impact (Reichel, 2013; Reichel & Seeberg, 
2011). 
Empirically observable sufficiency-based business model initiatives focus on 
decluttering, slow movement, de-commercialization (or subsistence), and 
unbundling towards more regionalization (Sachs, 2015; Schneidewind & Zahrnt, 
2014, based on Sachs, 1993). This includes for example sharing, contracting, 
extending products’ lives, slow streaming, slow travel, re-learning skills, open-
source initiatives, volunteering and a local supply chain and products (Gossen & 
Schrader, 2018; Paech, 2007; Schneidewind & Palzkill, 2012). Another sufficiency-
oriented strategy is the dematerialization and tertiarization, i.e. substituting 
products with service offers (Reichel, 2018b). 
According to Griese, Wawer and Böcher (2016, based on Bocken et al., 2014), the 
three main elements of business models focusing on sufficiency are characterized 
as follows: 
(i) 
Value proposition based on a reduction of consumption, which is 
approached by longevity and modular expandability of its products 
and by consumer education. 
(ii) 
Value creation has to ensure that all activities of the business, its 
partners and customers contribute to this reduction of consumption, 
along with a reduction of waste and longer use of the product(s). 
(iii) 
Value capture results from long-term customer loyalty, growing 
market shares because of reliable quality and a higher price level. 
Furthermore, social and ecological value can be created and attributed 
to the business and its customers, such as consumer education, 
reduced resource use and increased reuse and recycling of products. 
In line with Breuer, Fichter, Lüdeke-Freund, & Tiemann‘s (2018, p. 278) 
understanding of sustainable business models as “boundary-spanning and 
interactive systems”, the focus of the value proposition and creation of 
sufficiency-based business models is on the customer relationship and on 
influencing consumption behavior. It underlines the importance of the 
organization’s relationship to the consumer, who increasingly acts as a prosumer 

 
 
by becoming part of the value creating activities (Toffler, 1980). This will change 
the way the organization interacts with consumers, thereby changing the way 
value is created and also changing the prosumers’ life world (Hankammer & Kleer, 
2017; Reichel, 2013, 2017; Toffler, 1980). 
Social Practice Theory Perspective on Sufficiency 
If sufficiency-based business models are to support sufficiency-oriented lifestyles, 
while at the same time creating novel, more sustainable value for companies, we 
need to understand how consumer practices are constituted and how they can be 
transformed. Recognizing the shortcomings of purely behavioral approaches, 
social practice theory offers a societal and contextual view on consumption 
(Hampton & Adams, 2018, Spangenberg & Lorek, 2019): according to social 
practice theory, more or less sustainable patterns of consumption are embedded 
within and occurring as part of social practices (Spaargaren, 2003; Warde, 2005). 
Pro-environmental patterns of consumption can therefore not be triggered by 
educating consumers to change their attitude or beliefs alone, but rather by 
offering more sustainable alternatives to their usual daily practices (Spangenberg 
& Lorek, 2019). 
A practice is a “routinized type of behavior which consists of several elements, 
interconnected to one other” (Reckwitz, 2002, p. 249). The three central elements 
of a practice are (cf. Figure 1; Reckwitz, 2002; Shove & Pantzar, 2005; Shove, 
Pantzar, & Watson, 2012): 
Figure 1: Elements of a social practice, own illustration 

 
 
(i) 
Materials, including the body itself, objects, tools and infrastructures; 
(ii) 
Competences, know-how, practical knowledge, skills and a shared 
understanding of appropriate performance (e.g. rules, social norms); 
(iii) 
Meanings, images, emotions, motivational knowledge or mental 
patterns connected to the practices. 
Comparing various sufficiency-oriented consumer practices found in the relevant 
literature on sufficiency and consumption practices, some commonalities 
regarding the necessary materials, competences, and meanings can be observed 
(cf. Table 1). Recurring materials across many sufficiency-based practices are for 
example open (public) spaces and tools for subsistence-connected practices such 
as gardening. Especially for sharing practices, a (digital) platform and 
communication technology are vital to plan and coordinate the sharing of cars, 
tools, or meals. Food and waste containers can support the avoidance of plastic 
waste, food waste and the collection of organic waste for reuse (Daly, 2015; 
Schröder, 2013). 
Table 1: Examples for elements of sufficiency-based consumer practices 
While providing customers with the materials they need to perform sufficiency-
based practices, the education of customers to equip them with relevant 
competences and know-how, is even more important. Of course, communication 
and planning skills are required to participate in sharing and communal living 
practices. Being able to plan one’s daily life more carefully and with respect to 
others’ needs also implicates questioning one’s own consumption desires and 
might in itself lead to restraining from unnecessary or impulsive consumption 
practices. Adaptability and creativity in finding new solutions are just as important 
for sufficiency-oriented practices. Downsizing, reducing and shifting from product 
to service-based consumption often requires doing things differently and 
Practice 
Materials 
Competences 
Meanings 
Repairing 
Repairing tools 
Creativity;  
repairing skills 
Environmental concern; 
saving money 
Sharing 
(Digital) communication 
platforms 
Communication skills; 
planning skills; 
adaptability 
Reducing 
food waste 
Food & waste 
containers 
Planning skills; 
creativity 

 
 
consumers are challenged to adapt their practices to new circumstances. For all 
subsistence-related practices, in the sense of self-sufficiency and independence 
from the market place, do-it-yourself skills such as repairing are central (Daly, 
2015; Hole, 2014; Krasny et al. 2015; Latouche, 2010; Reichel, 2018b; Trainer, 
2012). 
Finally, appealing to recurring meanings connected to sufficiency-based practices, 
will be the challenge for sufficiency-oriented businesses’ value propositions. 
Central meanings attached to sufficiency throughout various practices is of course 
a high concern for the environment. Some consumers are willing to change their 
consumption practices to use less resources, decrease their emissions and to avoid 
waste. For others, health concerns for themselves and their family might lead to 
reducing the consumption of processed foods or cycling to work. Saving money 
and time are meanings many consumers value and which can be a valuable 
argumentation in the ‘less is more’ narrative. An important aspect is also the wish 
for social integrity and communal living, which can support the establishment of 
sharing practices (Daly, 2015; Schäfer et al., 2018; Scholl, 2009). 
Value Creation for Sufficiency 
As introduced above, value proposition and value creation are key points in a 
businesses’ relation to sufficiency-based practices. In the following, it will be 
elaborated from a social practice theory perspective, how the value proposition 
and especially the value creation process of a business change with a focus on 
sufficiency. 
All practices of the business and its stakeholders will be directed towards using 
less resources, avoiding waste and producing made-to-last products (Bocken et 
al., 2014; Griese, Wawer, & Böcher, 2016). More radical approaches include a shift 
from selling goods to selling performances and aiming at substituting customers’ 
needs towards more sufficient ones (Paech, 2007; Stahel, 2001). This involves a 
close relationship with both consumers and the value-chain and a change towards 
an extended value creation towards including environmental and societal aspects 
beyond the firms’ boundaries (Bocken & Short, 2016; Breuer et al., 2018, 
Schaltegger, Hansen, & Lüdeke-Freund, 2016). 
A business model’s value proposition for sufficiency should revolve around the 
materials, skills and meanings connected to sufficiency-based consumer practices, 
as introduced above. It has to target its products and services, selection of 

 
 
customer segments and relationships and the proposed value to fit sufficiency-
based practices (Short et al., 2014). It can provide the consumer with the material 
and skills needed for a specific practice. Customer segments to be addressed 
would value sufficiency-connected meanings, such as ecological concern or 
sociality as inherent part of their lifestyles. The rather diverse and individual 
meanings connected to sufficiency-related practices are both a challenge and an 
opportunity for a business. It has to carefully frame the proposed value of a 
product or service not only in terms of value to the customer, such as saving time 
and money, but also to the environment, the local community, or society at large 
(Boons & Lüdeke-Freund, 2013). 
While the value proposition of a business can be framed by the company itself, the 
value creation processes will have to include the consumers, as a close relationship 
to and education of customers are essential for sufficiency-based business 
approaches. This supports the understanding of a business model as “not just a 
rationale of organizational value creation […] but also as an approach to building 
and maintaining relationships.” (Freudenreich, Lüdeke-Freund, & Schaltegger, 
2019) A company will have to open up to a higher consumer integration in its 
innovation and production process to create products and services that not only 
reduce resource consumption and waste production, but also meet its customers 
true needs to offer alternative, sufficiency-based practices that increase their life 
satisfaction. For that a company has to offer room for participation, be willing to 
share information and knowledge and frame the collaboration process with 
meanings appealing to sufficiency-oriented consumers. The customers’ role then 
will change from a passive consumer of ready-made products and services 
towards an active prosumer that is integrated into the value creation of a company 
(Reichel, 2018a; Toffler, 1980). 
Focusing on sufficiency-oriented consumer practices by providing the right 
materials, competences and meanings to consumers while integrating them into 
the value creation process will impact a company’s business model (Osterwalder, 
Pigneur, & Tucci, 2005). The following section will outline these impacts from a 
social practice theory perspective and give examples for sufficiency-related 
business practices (cf.Table 2). 
Providing the appropriate materials includes lowering the amount of resources 
and energy used for production, designing products to last longer (in a physical 
and aesthetic sense), and an effort to regionalize the supply-chain; but it also 
requires a company to reconsider the value creation process as a whole. Does it 

 
 
sell finished products that might help consumers do more with less? Does it focus 
on providing the right resources and tools for consumers to create the final 
product themselves? Or does it move towards dematerialization by substituting 
the product with a service offer? The identified commonalities between 
sufficiency-based consumer practices point towards a need to provide the space, 
platform, communication means and tools for consumers to take up subsistence-
related, sharing and repairing practices. In that sense, the business’ contribution 
to value creation focuses on facilitating the creation of sufficiency-related 
products and services, while consumers adopt the role of prosumers by actively 
engaging in the value creation process. Examples for sufficiency-related materials 
that can be provided by companies are repairing tools, sharing platforms, and co-
housing facilitations. Products such as repairing tools would have to be 
accompanied with consumer education services such as (virtual) workshops on 
how to use the tools for the intended practice (Fuentes, 2015; Paech, 2007; 
Schneidewind & Palzkill-Vorbeck, 2011). 
Facilitating consumers to do more with less and creating value themselves also 
relates to the competence-aspect of social practices. A company has to provide its 
customers with the right know-how and skills to engage in the intended practice. 
Many sufficiency-oriented practices require for example a certain amount of 
adaption and creativity to find innovative solutions in substituting common 
consumer practices with more sufficient ones. This also relates back to materials: 
the product or service design in itself would have to be as intuitive and easy-to-
use as possible to lower the hurdle for adapting the new practice. A company can 
support the adaptation of new practices by providing accompanying services 
teaching consumers how to use their product or service, and by sharing stories of 
successful practitioners or providing the means for consumers themselves to 
share their stories with one another. Collaborative innovation also offers the 
opportunity for a business to understand its consumers needs and to jointly come 
up with new solutions and practices, engaging both the company and the 
consumers in a mutual learning relationship (Reichel, 2019). A focus on consumer 
education and collaborative innovation puts an even stronger emphasis on a well-
designed customer relationship management (Posse, 2015; Schneidewind & 
Palzkill-Vorbeck, 2011). 
Not only materials and competences would be created together by companies and 
consumers, also the meanings connected to sufficiency-based practices can be 
developed in a joint process. As a first step, companies can recruit sufficiency-
affine consumers by framing marketing and communication to correspond with 

 
 
the set of meanings attached to their practices or certain enabling products and 
services. Ecological concern still is one of the central meanings attached to 
sufficiency practices. This includes motivations to reduce resource and energy 
consumption, avoid waste, reuse and recycle items, seeing waste as a valuable 
resource. Recycled products or services to reduce resource consumption and 
reuse waste would appeal to this meaning complex. Another meaning that has 
many connections to sufficiency, as it particularly enables sharing practices, is the 
desire for being part of a community and a rich social life. A company can design 
products and services that enable this kind of community, and it can actively 
support the creation of a sense of community amongst its consumers. Again, this 
requires a close collaboration between the company and consumers, in which not 
only the functions of a product or service are developed together, but also a 
common understanding of the meaning behind this product and service. It implies 
not only a communication from the company to the customer, but a dialogue 
between the two parties (and other stakeholders as well) that shapes the value 
creation process, but also impacts and possibly changes the value proposition of a 
business (Fuentes, 2015; Gossen & Schrader, 2018; Griese & Halstrup, 2013; 
Reichel, 2018a). 
Table 2: Value creation for sufficiency-related practices 
 
 
 
Materials 
Competences 
Meanings 
Value  
Creation 
Lowering resources and 
energy use for 
production 
Long lasting, intuitive 
product design 
Regionalization of 
supply-chain 
Dematerialization by 
offering services 
instead of products 
Providing space, 
platform, 
communication means 
& tools 
Providing sufficiency-
related know-how & 
skills 
Supporting adaptation 
& creativity of 
customers by sharing 
user stories 
Facilitating exchange of 
experiences among 
customers 
Engaging in 
collaborative 
innovation 
Framing marketing & 
communication around 
sufficiency-related 
meanings 
Focusing on ecological 
concern, incl. resource 
& energy use, waste 
avoidance and re-use 
Creating sense of 
community among 
customers 
Examples 
Repairing tools, sharing 
platforms, co-housing 
facilitations 
Repairing skills, 
communication skills, 
planning skills 
Reducing CO2 
emissions, saving 
money, being part of a 
community 

 
 
Conclusion 
This conceptual paper contributes to our understanding of how businesses can 
support a social transition towards strong sustainability by reflecting on 
perspectives for value creation for business models addressing sufficiency-based 
consumer practices. These first insights support the proposed shift of consumer 
roles from consumers to prosumers. It could be shown that the need for customer 
integration and collaborative innovation increases for sufficiency-based value 
creation. Sufficiency-based consumer practices’ influence on a business’ value 
proposition and their active involvement in the value creation forces companies 
to carefully (re-)consider their processes and especially their customer and 
stakeholder relationship management. Applying social practice theory reveals 
several levers on the level of materials, competences and meanings, which 
companies can serve to support sufficiency-oriented consumer lifestyles. 
As this short paper has only looked into the impacts on value proposition and value 
creation between a company and its customers, further research could expand the 
proposed framework by looking into other elements of sufficiency-based business 
models, such as value delivery and capture. Digital marketing as a communication 
channel for sufficiency-based practices bears potential for further exploration 
(Gossen & Schrader, 2018). The impact of value creation for sufficiency on other 
stakeholders should also be taken into consideration (Freudenreich, Lüdeke-
Freund, & Schaltegger, 2019). Also, there is a need for more empirical studies in 
the field of sufficiency-based consumer practices and sufficiency-oriented 
business models on their actual ecological and social impacts. Research in this field 
will facilitate transformations towards business models that support sufficiency-
based consumer practices in a transformation towards more sustainable 
production and consumption. 
References 
Backhaus, J., Breukers, S., Mont, O., Paukovic, M., & Mourik, R. (2012). Sustainable 
Lifestyles: Today’s Facts & Tomorrow’s Trends. Wuppertal: Centre on 
Sustainable 
Consumption 
and 
Production. 
Available 
from: 
http://www.sustainable-
lifestyles.eu/fileadmin/images/content/D1.1_Baseline_Report_short.pdf 
[Accessed 12th April 2019] 
Bocken, N., & Short, S. (2016) Towards a sufficiency-driven business model: 
Experiences and opportunities. Environmental Innovation and Societal 
Transitions, 18, 41–61. 

 
 
Bocken, N., Short, S., Rana, P., & Evans, S. (2014) A literature and practice review 
to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 65, 42–56. 
Boons, F., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2013) Business models for sustainable innovation: 
State-of-the-art and steps towards a research agenda. Journal of Cleaner 
Production, 45, 9–19. 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Tiemann, I. (2018) Sustainability-
oriented business model development: principles, criteria and tools. 
International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing, 10(2), 256–286. 
Daly, M. (2015) Practicing sustainability: Lessons from a sustainable cohousing 
community. 7th State of Australian Cities Conference. Gold Coast. Available 
from: 
https://opus.lib.uts.edu.au/bitstream/10453/42045/1/Daly.pdf 
[Accessed 15th February 2019] 
Fischer, C., & Grießhammer, R. (2013) Mehr als nur weniger - Suffizienz: Begriff, 
Begründung und Potenziale. Öko-Institut Working Paper, 2/2013. Available 
from: 
www.oeko.de/oekodoc/1836/2013-505-de.pdf 
[Accessed 
15th 
February 2019] 
Freudenreich, B., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Schaltegger, S. (2019) A Stakeholder Theory 
Perspective on Business Models: Value Creation for Sustainability. Journal of 
Business Ethics. Available from https://doi.org/10.1007/s10551-019-04112-
z [Accessed 15th February 2019] 
Fuentes, C. (2015) How green marketing works: Practices, materialities, and 
images. Scandinavian Journal of Management, 31(2), 192–205. 
Gossen, M., & Schrader, U. (2018) Welche Potenziale die Digitalisierung für ein 
suffizienzförderndes Marketing bringt. Ökologisches Wirtschaften, 1(33), 8–
9. 
Griese, 
K.-M., 
& 
Halstrup, 
D. 
(2013) 
Suffizienz 
in 
der 
Unternehmenskommunikation. Ökologisches Wirtschaften, 4, 40–44. 
Griese, K.-M., Wawer, T., & Böcher, R. (2016) Suffizienzorientierte 
Geschäftsmodelle am Beispiel von Stromspeichern. Zeitschrift Für 
Energiewirtschaft, 40(2), 57–71. 
Hampton, S., & Adams, R. (2018) Behavioural economics vs social practice theory: 
Perspectives from inside the United Kingdom government. Energy Research 
and Social Science, 46(January), 214–224. 
Hankammer, S., & Kleer, R. (2017) Degrowth and collaborative value creation: 
Reflections on concepts and technologies. Journal of Cleaner Production, (in 
press), 1–8.  

 
 
Hole, N. (2014) The Policy Implications of Everyday Energy Consumption: The 
Meanings, Temporal Rhythms and Social Dynamics of Energy Use. University 
of Exeter. Available from: http://hdl.handle.net/10871/16551. [Accessed 
15th February 2019] 
Iwata, Osamu (1999) Perceptual and Behavioral Correlates of Voluntary Simplicity 
Lifestyles. Social Behavior and Personality: An International Journal, 27(4), 
379–386. 
Kleinhückelkotten, S. (2005). Suffizienz und Lebensstile. Berlin: Berliner 
Wissenschafts-Verlag. 
Krasny, M., Silva, P., Barr, C., Golshani, Z., Lee, E., Ligas, R., … Reynosa, A. (2015) 
Civic ecology practices: Insights from practice theory. Ecology and Society, 
20(2), 12.  
Kropfeld, M., Nepomuceno, M., & Dantas, D. C. (2018) The Ecological Impact of 
Anticonsumption Lifestyles and Environmental Concern. Journal of Public 
Policy & Marketing, 37(2), 245–259. 
Latouche, S. (2010) Degrowth. Journal of Cleaner Production, 18(6), 519–522. 
Leitner, M. & Littig, B. (2015) Doing sustainability in a Viennese Cohousing project. 
In: Lorek, S. & Backhaus, J. (eds.) ‘Beyond’ Transition? Understanding and 
Achieving Sustainable Consumption through Social Innovation. Proceedings 
of the SCORAI Europe Workshop, 17 November 2015, Vienna, Austria. 
Sustainable Consumption Transitions Series, Issue 5, pp. 83–91. 
Leng, M., Schild, K., & Hofmann, H. (2018) Gelebte Suffizienz – Chancen, 
Hemmnisse und fördernde Maßnahmen. Center for Development and 
Environment, Universität Bern, Bern Open Publishing. Available from: 
http://dx.doi.org/10.7892/boris.119736 [Accessed 15th February 2019] 
Lettenmeier, M., Liedtke, C., & Rohn, H. (2014) Eight Tons of Material Footprint—
Suggestion for a Resource Cap for Household Consumption in Finland. 
Resources, 3, 488–515.  
Lettenmeier, M., Rohn, H., Liedtke, C., & Schmidt-Bleek, F. (2009) Resource 
productivity in 7 steps. Wuppertal Spezial, 41. Wuppertal. Available from: 
http://www.kestavakulutus.fi/data/files/sevensteps.pdf [Accessed 13th 
February 2019] 
Linz, M., Bartelmus, P., Hennicke, P., Jungkeit, R., Sachs, W., Scherhorn, G., … von 
Winterfeld, U. (2002). Von nichts zu viel. Wuppertal Papers, 125, 71–82. 
Retrieved from http://epub.wupperinst.org/files/1512/WP125.pdf 
Lukas, M. (2015) Suffiziente Haushalte – Illusion oder Möglichkeit? Uwf 
UmweltWirtschaftsForum, 23(1), 15–21. 
Lütge, C. (2013). Keine sinnvolle Idee: Suffizienz aus Sicht einer modernen Ethik. 
Politische Ökologie, 135, 33-38. 

 
 
Osterwalder, A., Pigneur, Y., & Tucci, C. L. (2005) Clarifying business models: 
Origins, present, and future of the concept. Communications of the 
Association for Information Systems, 16, Article 1. 
Paech, N. (2007) Unternehmerische Nachhaltigkeit und die ungelöste 
Wachstumsfrage: Von der Funktionsorientierung zur Bedarfssubstitution. 
Uwf UmweltWirtschaftsForum, 15(2), 86–91. 
Posse, D. (2015) Zukunftsfähige Unternehmen in einer Postwachstumsgesellschaft 
Lehren aus dem Ernährungssektor. Uwf UmweltWirtschaftsForum, 23(1–2), 
59–67. 
Profijt, 
M. 
(2018). 
Mobilitätssuffizienz 
als 
Lösungsbeitrag 
zur 
Treibhausgasreduktion. Ökologisches Wirtschaften, 3, 35–39. 
Reckwitz, A. (2002) Toward a theory of social practices: A development in 
culturalist theorizing. European Journal of Social Theory, 5, 243–263. 
Reichel, A. (2013) Das Geschäftsmodell des Weniger. Politische Ökologie, 135, 92–
98. 
Reichel, A. (2017) Wachstumsindifferenz: Generische Unternehmensstrategien für 
die Postwachstumsökonomie. In: Wunder, T. (ed.), CSR und Strategisches 
Management. Berlin, Springer, pp. 325–339. 
Reichel, A. (Ed.). (2018a) Next Growth: Wachstum neu denken. Frankfurt am Main, 
Zukunftsinstitut.  
Reichel, A. (2018b) Sufficiency in Business Strategies. In J. Potocnik, J. 
Spangenberg, B. Alcott, V. Kiss, A. Coote, A. Reichel, … M. V. Mathai (eds.), 
Sufficiency: Moving beyond the gospel of eco-efficiency. Brussels, Friends of 
the Earth Europe, pp. 22–25. 
Reichel, A. (2019) Die Neuerfindung des Neuen. Soziale Innovationen in 
kollaborativen Innovationsprozessen. In Frambach, H., Koubek, N. Kurz, H. & 
R. Pfriem (Eds.), Schöpferische Zerstörung und der Wandel des 
Unternehmertums. Marburg, Metropolis, pp. 53–70. 
Reichel, A., & Seeberg, B. (2011) The Ecological Allowance of Enterprise: An 
Absolute Measure of Corporate Environmental Performance, its 
Implications for Strategy, and a Small Case. Journal of Environmental 
Sustainability, 1(1), 1–15. 
Rockström, J., Steffen, W., Noone, K., Persson, Å., Chapin, F. S. I., Lambin, E., … 
Foley, J. (2009) Planetary Boundaries: Exploring the safe operating space for 
humanity. Ecology and Society, 14(2), 32–58. 
Sachs, W. (1993) Die vier E’s: Merkposten für einen massvollen Wirtschaftsstil. 
Politische Ökologie, 11(33), 69–72. 
Sachs, W. (2015) Suffizienz. Umrisse einer Ökonomie des Genug. Uwf 
UmweltWirtschaftsForum, 23(1–2), 3–9. 

 
 
Schäfer, M., Hielscher, S., Haas, W., Hausknost, D., Leitner, M., Kunze, I., & Mandl, 
S. (2018) Facilitating low-carbon living? A comparison of intervention 
measures in different community-based initiatives. Sustainability, 10, 1047. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business Models for 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues. Organization 
and Environment, 29(1), 3–10. 
Schneidewind, U., & Palzkill, A. (2012) Suffizienz als Business Case. Impulse Zur 
WachstumsWende, Wuppertal, Wuppertal Institut. Available from: 
https://epub.wupperinst.org/frontdoor/deliver/index/docId/3955/file/Imp
W2.pdf [Accessed 15th February 2019] 
Schneidewind, U., & Palzkill-Vorbeck, A. (2011) Suffizienz als Business Case. 
Wuppertal, 
Wuppertal 
Institut. 
Avaibale 
from: 
https://epub.wupperinst.org/files/3955/ImpW2.pdf 
[Accessed 
15th 
February 2019] 
Schneidewind, U., & Zahrnt, A. (2014) Politics of Sufficiency. The institutional 
framework for a sufficiency driven economy. Ökologisches Wirtschaften, 
29(3), 30–33. 
Scholl, G. (2009) Marketing nachhaltiger Dienstleistungen. Marburg, Metropolis. 
Schröder, T. (2013) Sustainability in Practice: A study of how reflexive agents 
negotiate multiple domains of consumption, enact change, and articulate 
visions of the ‘good life. University of Manchester. Available from: https://d-
nb.info/1065040237/34 [Accessed 15th February 2019] 
Seidl, I., & Zahrnt, A. (2013) Strukturwandel fordert Neuausrichtung von 
Geschäftsmodellen. Ökologisches Wirtschaften, 1, 27–29. 
Short, S., Bocken, N., Barlow, C., & Chertow, M. (2014) From refining sugar to 
growing tomatoes: Industrial ecology and business model evolution. Journal 
of Industrial Ecology, 18(5), 603–618. 
Shove, E. & Pantzar, M. (2005) Consumers, Producers and Practices. 
Understanding the invention and reinvention of Nordic walking. Journal of 
Consumer Culture, 5, 43-64. 
Shove, E., Pantzar, M., & Watson, M. (2012) The dynamics of social practice. 
London, Sage. 
Spaargaren, G. (2003) Sustainable Consumption: A Theoretical and Environmental 
Policy Perspective. Society & Natural Resources, 16, 687–701. 
Spaargaren, G., & Van Vliet, B. (2018) Lifestyles, consumption and the 
environment: The ecological modernization of domestic consumption. 
Environmental Politics, 9(1), 50–76. 
Spangenberg, J., & Lorek, S. (2019) Sufficiency and consumer behaviour: From 
theory to policy. Energy Policy, 129(March), 1070–1079. 
Speck, M. (2016) Konsum und Suffizienz. Wiesbaden, Springer. 

 
 
Stahel, W. (2001) Sustainability and Services. In: Charter, M., & Tischner, U. (eds.), 
Sustainable Solutions. Sheffield: Greenleaf, pp. 151–164. 
Stengel, O. (2011) Suffizienz. München, oekom. 
Toffler, A. (1980) The Third Wave. New York, William Morrow. 
Trainer, T. (2012) De-growth: Do you realise what it means? Futures, 44(6), 590–
599. 
Warde, A. (2005) Consumption and theories of practice. Journal of Consumer 
Culture, 5(2), 131–153. 
Wilts, H., & von Gries, N. (2015) Suffizienz als Geschäftsfeld der 
Kreislaufwirtschaft. Uwf UmweltWirtschaftsForum, 23(1), 41–47. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 
MODELS FOR A SHARING 
ECONOMY 
TRACK IX 

 
 
Track IX: Sustainable Business Models for A Sharing 
Economy 
 
Chair: Frederik Plewnia 
TU Dresden, Germany 
 
 
Over the last decade, numerous organizations summarized under the umbrella 
term of a “sharing economy” have emerged and rapidly gained traction (Botsman 
and Rogers, 2010). A key feature of these sharing economy organizations is the 
employment of digital platforms to mediate the shared use of under-utilized 
resources between companies and individuals (Munoz and Cohen, 2017). Uber 
and Airbnb are well-known examples, but many other organizations, facilitating 
activities such as car sharing, crowdsourcing or community gardening, are also 
being associated with the sharing economy (Codagnone et al., 2016). 
Consequently, researchers are still debating about which companies should be 
labeled as sharing economy and which should not (Belk, 2014). Furthermore, 
contradictions arise when arguing about the impacts of the sharing economy on 
sustainable development. While sharing organizations might be able to make 
better use of idle resources and spur social interactions, they may also undermine 
regulatory standards and lead to significant rebounds effects (Acquier et al., 2017; 
Martin, 2016). However, instead of trying to regard the sharing economy as one 
coherent phenomenon, differences between the individual manifestations of 
sharing business models should be acknowledged and investigated for their 
sustainability implications (Plewnia and Guenther, 2018). To address this issue, 
this session examines how the design of business models within the sharing 
economy can influence its sustainability impacts. Conceptual as well as empirical 
papers will advance the discussion by presenting frameworks and case studies to 
assess the economic, ecological and social consequences of sharing economy 
business models. 
References / Further Reading 
Acquier, A., Daudigeos, T. and Pinkse, J. (2017), “Promises and paradoxes of the 
sharing economy: An organizing framework”, Technological Forecasting and 
Social Change, Vol. 125, pp. 1–10. 
Belk, R. (2014), “Sharing Versus Pseudo-Sharing in Web 2.0”, Anthropologist, Vol. 
18 No. 1, pp. 7–23. 

 
 
Botsman, R. and Rogers, R. (2010), What’s Mine Is Yours: The Rise of Collaborative 
Consumption, HarperCollins, New York. 
Codagnone, C., Biagi, F. and Abadie, F. (2016), The Passions and the Interests: 
Unpacking the “Sharing Economy”, SSRN Scholarly Paper No. ID 2793901, 
Social 
Science 
Research 
Network, 
Rochester, 
NY, 
available 
at: 
http://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=2793901 (accessed 27 August 2016). 
Martin, C.J. (2016), “The sharing economy: A pathway to sustainability or a 
nightmarish form of neoliberal capitalism?”, Ecological Economics, Vol. 121, 
pp. 149–159. 
Munoz, P. and Cohen, B. (2017), “Mapping out the Sharing Economy: A 
Configurational Approach to Sharing Business Modeling”, Technological 
Forecasting and Social Change, No. 10.1016/j.techfore.2017.03.035, 
available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2017.03.035 (accessed 17 
April 2017). 
Plewnia, F. and Guenther, E. (2018), “Mapping the sharing economy for 
sustainability research”, Management Decision, Vol. 56 No. 3, pp. 570–583. 
 
 

 
 
Narratives of Sharing  
How do companies translate sharing into their 
Business Model? 
 
Alexandra Palzkill1,*,, Karoline Augenstein1 
 
1 Center for Transformation Research and Sustainability (TransZent), 
University of Wuppertal, Döppersberg 19, 42103 Wuppertal  
 
*palzkill@uni-wuppertal.de 
 
Abstract  
Also in Transition research, sharing is discussed as a way of reducing emissions and 
resource use by radically changing the way we produce and consume. But sharing 
is diverse and not clearly defined as a term. Therefore, the research question 
addressed here is how successful sharing companies (e.g. AirBnB, Uber), 
established companies that try to integrate sharing in “traditional” business 
models (e.g. Tchibo) and smaller, more sustainability-oriented sharing companies 
(e.g. Cambio) translate sharing for themselves? By linking the business model 
concept with a narrative research approach, the paper aims to help create 
orientation among different types of sharing and its potential for sustainable 
societal transitions. 
Keywords  
sharing economy; narratives; corporate narratives; sustainable business model; 
societal transition. 
 
 
 

 
 
Sharing economy business models as 
drivers for a more sustainable energy 
system 
 
Frederik Plewnia1,2, Edeltraud Günther1,2 
1Chair of Business Administration, esp. Sustainability Management 
and Environmental Accounting, Faculty of Business and Economics, 
TU Dresden; 2PRISMA - Centre for Sustainability Measurement and 
Assessment, TU Dresden 
 
Abstract 
Under the umbrella term of a sharing economy, platform based organizations have 
used digital technologies to coordinate decentralized value creation and 
innovative business models in the entertainment, mobility, and hospitality 
industry. At the same time, ambitions to transition the energy sector towards 
more sustainability have significantly increased the shares of decentralized 
renewable energy technologies. At the interface of these two topics, this paper 
investigates how business models of the sharing economy might be employed 
within the energy sector in order to foster a transition towards a more sustainable 
energy system. In a multiple case study design, interviews, company workshops, 
and secondary data documents were used to examine business models of 
companies which already implement ideas of the sharing economy in the energy 
sector. It is found that, in an energy sector transitioning towards renewable 
energies, sharing economy business models may offer a wide variety of possible 
applications due to the numerous characteristics both fields have in common. 
These common characteristics include: the reliance on digital technologies, the in-
crease of consumer-to-consumer interactions, the rising importance of plat-form 
companies, and the focus on social and ecological values. Furthermore, the results 
show that sharing economy business models may drive the energy transition 
through technological change, (e.g. through the dissemination of smart meter 
technologies), economic change (e.g. by opening new market opportunities for 

 
 
renewable energies), and behavioral change (e.g. by rising transparency on energy 
consumption patterns). 
Keywords 
sharing economy, new business models, energy transition, renewable energies, 
sustainability transition 
 
 

 
 
Towards a Prescriptive Framework of 
Sharing Platform Models  
 
Steven Kane Curtis1,*, Oksana Mont1 
 
1The International Institute for Industrial Environmental Economics 
(IIIEE), Lund University | Lund, Sweden 
 
*Correspondence: steven.curtis@iiiee.lu.se 
 
Abstract 
Departing from a normative definition of the sharing economy for sustainability, 
we prescribe a sharing platform model framework to describe these practices. 
Furthermore, we seek to contribute to business model literature describing triadic 
business models, in particular, processes of value co-creation as a result of 
practices mediated by a platform.  
Keywords 
Sharing Economy, Platform Models, Business Models, Value Co-Creation, 
Sustainability 
Introduction 
Growing attention has been paid to the sharing economy as a phenomenon, from 
societal actors and academia. In part, this attention is due to the purported 
sustainability potential of the sharing economy to facilitate access over ownership, 
leading to more sustainable consumption practices (Ertz and Leblanc-Proulx, 2018; 
Light and Miskelly, 2015; Martin, 2016).  However, much of the focus of past 
academic research and media attention has been on unicorns such as Airbnb and 
Uber (Muñoz and Cohen, 2018; Ritter and Schanz, 2019), which do not illuminate 
the diverse permutations of “business models” within the sharing economy 
domain (Chasin et al., 2018). Furthermore, several streams of research explore the 
sharing economy from diverse disciplines, which leads to conflicting and 

 
 
competing conceptualisations (Lobbers et al., 2017). Semantic confusion persists 
in defining the sharing economy (Belk, 2014; Richardson, 2015), which results in 
disparate practices being included under the ‘sharing economy’ umbrella (Habibi 
et al., 2017).  
An emerging stream of literature explores business models within the sharing 
economy. Recent studies have developed conflicting typologies (Plewnia and 
Guenther, 2018), classifications (Täuscher and Laudien, 2018), taxonomies (Chasin 
et al., 2018), frameworks (Lobbers et al., 2017; Ritter and Schanz, 2019) and tools 
(Muñoz and Cohen, 2018). These studies are descriptive of those business models 
increasingly attributed to the sharing economy, analysing literature, interviews, 
and cases. As such, these conceptualisations tend to be inclusive of the wide 
variety of models and practices, which may or may not fulfil the promise of the 
sharing economy as a mode for sustainable consumption.  
In contrast to previous descriptive studies, which examine disparate practices 
attributed to the sharing economy, our approach is prescriptive. A prescriptive 
approach to research seeks to develop recommendations to solve practical 
problems as a result of an interpretive research process (Ahlemann et al., 2013). 
In this case, we suggest a gap between literature describing business models in 
the sharing economy and its purported sustainability potential. Quite simply, we 
suggest that access cannot be the only condition to demarcate practices in the 
sharing economy, as market competition among business-to-consumer 
companies can lead to an under-utilised stock of new goods (e.g. bikesharing 
graveyards in China). Therefore, our previous research sought to define the 
sharing economy for sustainability, demarcating those practices that are more 
likely to lead to more sustainable consumption. We define the sharing economy 
as a socio-economic system that leverages technology to mediate two- or multi-
sided markets, which facilitate temporary access to goods that are under-utilised, 
tangible, and rivalrous (Curtis & Lehner, 2019). 
Our definition as such excludes business-to-consumer models as there is no 
platform mediation present; furthermore, the definition suggests that sharing 
economy business models cannot create a new stock of goods, but facilitates 
access to an already existing stock of under-utilised goods. We suggest platform 
mediation and leveraging idling capacity of an already existing stock of goods is 
more likely to contribute to more sustainable consumption. While this helps to 
delineate more sustainable consumption practices, this is at odds with many of 
the conceptualisations of the sharing economy at present.  

 
 
Whereas previous research has sought to examine existing sharing economy 
business models to develop business model frameworks, our interpretative 
research process builds from business model literature and logic to prescribe 
business model configurations that are more likely to contribute to sustainable 
consumption.  
Approach 
While literature has focused on the design of business models attributed to the 
sharing economy, less attention has been paid to the practices facilitated by 
platforms and their subsequent sustainability implications. Our contribution 
departs from two postulations: 1) there is a need to expand research beyond the 
traditional business model perspective to be inclusive of non-traditional 
organisational models and grassroots initiatives in the sharing economy; and 2) 
there is a need to consider the mediated practice of the platform, as value is co-
created by the sharing practice between a resource owner and resource user 
through the platform. Furthermore, many of these practices may not be 
considered part of the sharing economy. 
Firstly, we suggest adopting the terminology platform model instead of business 
model when describing the design of entities engaging in the sharing economy. 
Platform models as a term is more consistent with the growing body of literature 
pertaining to the platform economy, which is inclusive of sharing economy 
platforms (Kenney and Zysman, 2016). Furthermore, this terminology is more in 
line with recent academic literature framing the sharing economy as creating two- 
or multi-sided markets, operated as platforms, which are mediated by information 
and communication technology (ICT) (Chasin et al., 2018; Curtis and Lehner, 2019; 
Muñoz and Cohen, 2018; Ritter and Schanz, 2019). Finally, platform models are 
more inclusive of non-traditional organisational models and grassroots initiatives, 
which do not operate as traditional businesses but meet the criteria provided by 
our prescriptive definition.  
Secondly, research examining the design of sharing economy business models has 
often excluded the practice facilitated by the platform as part of any analysis. We 
define the practice to be the sharing exchange between a resource owner and a 
resource user as mediated by the platform. Our postulation suggests that research 
of sharing economy platform models must also consider this mediated practice 
between a resource owner and resource user. This is important in order to 
distinguish between “all activities currently uncomfortably corralled under the 

 
 
term ‘sharing economy’” (Davies et al., 2017, p. 210) and those practices that may 
promote more sustainable consumption.  
To illuminate this point, consider Airbnb. Airbnb operates as a two-sided market, 
which leverages ICT to mediate accommodation rental via an online platform. The 
platform model may facilitate access to spare rooms in providers’ homes or entire 
apartments when providers are away. However, the same platform model may 
also facilitate access to entire apartments rented by commercial real estate and 
property management companies for solely money-making purposes, which does 
not leverage idling capacity. While the platform model remains the same, the first 
practice belongs to the sharing economy and the second does not (Curtis and 
Lehner, 2019; Ranjbari et al., 2018). Similar logic can be applied to other platform 
models and practices. Thus, this distinction has implications on potential 
sustainability impacts that platforms may give rise to. 
To support our development of a prescriptive framework of sharing economy 
platforms linked to the practices facilitated by the platform, we are conducting a 
literature review of relevant extant literature. We performed a Scopus database 
search using the search query "sharing economy"" AND {"business models" " OR 
"platform models"}. The returned results included 104 academic articles in 
English. We reviewed the titles and abstracts to assess the relevance of each 
article to study sharing economy platform models; our review resulted in 71 
relevant articles, of which, we were able to attain full PDF access to 68 articles. 
NVivo is facilitating our storage, reading, analysis, and interpretation of these 
texts. We use this literature to inform the development of the prescriptive 
framework of sharing platform models. 
Insights 
Literature in our sample acknowledges the lack of definitional clarity of the sharing 
economy. Furthermore, Plewnia & Guenther (2018) suggests that implications for 
sustainable consumption cannot be studied as long as there exist no clear 
understanding of the practices comprised in the sharing economy. Even when a 
definition is provided, the subsequent frameworks describing business models do 
not always align with the authors’ stated definition. For example, Muñoz & Cohen 
(2018, p. 115) state that the sharing economy shall aim to increase efficiency AND 
optimise under-utilised resources. However, their framework includes optimising 
the use of new resources and they use Etsy and InstaCart as examples of sharing 
economy organisations. Etsy is an e-commerce website that facilitates distribution 

 
 
of hand-made, vintage or unique small-scale manufactured products for sale. 
InstaCart is an online grocery delivery platform facilitating home deliveries 
between local grocery stores and shoppers. Both are not examples of optimising 
under-utilised resources, a condition of their own definition. In contrast to this and 
others, our framework departs from our prescriptive definition of the sharing 
economy for sustainability.  
We seek to contribute to existing business model literature describing T- or triadic 
business models, in particular, when describing value creation. In a triadic business 
model, such as those considered by our definition of the sharing economy, the 
platform facilitates interactions and transactions between a supplier and 
customer, co-creating value with and through the platform (Andreassen et al., 
2018). Value co-creation in web-based multi-sided platforms is a process 
facilitated by the platform, which involves multiple actors engaging in key 
activities and processes of interaction and integration (de Oliveira and Cortimiglia, 
2017). A limited but growing body of literature considers value co-creation among 
actors in the sharing economy, from the perspective of specific examples or 
geographies (Camilleri and Neuhofer, 2017; Johnson and Neuhofer, 2017; Lan et 
al., 2017; Zhang et al., 2018).  
In contrast to traditional business models, with value being unidirectional from a 
supplier to a consumer, platform models in the sharing economy see multi-
directional value creation, delivery, and capture through the process of value co-
creation. For example, sharing platform models see a resource owner and 
resource user engage in key activities that are enabled by the platform model, 
which contribute to value co-creation. The value proposition of the platform is 
largely mediation and matchmaking; however, the value proposition for the 
resource owner and resource user is realised through their own key activities 
(Figure 1).  
Value co-creation is only one aspect in considering platform models in the sharing 
economy. In developing our framework, we chose to depart from the work 
conducted by Täuscher & Laudien (2018) in understanding platform models by 
using morphological analysis (MA) to illustrate platform model dimensions, 
parameters and conditions. MA is a non-quantitative modelling method useful for 
concept 

 
 
Figure 1. Key Activities by Actors Contributing to Value Co-Creation 
 
 
generation as well as structuring and analysing “…complex cases where expertise 
on several areas is required” (Im and Cho, 2013, p. 4464). MA allows for the 
representation of business models across several dimensions of analysis (Im and 
Cho, 2013). Parameters are used to describe these dimensions and denote further 
the attributes of a business model (Im and Cho, 2013). Finally, conditions reflect 
all the possible alternatives as comprehensively and as detailed as possible with 
respect to their parameter (Im and Cho, 2013). 
The framework is built abductively through discussions among researchers as well 
as in consultation of academic literature. After several iterations, we developed 
an initial prescriptive framework of sharing economy platform models (Figure 2). 
Drawing on business model literature (Osterwalder and Pigneur, 2010; Teece, 
2010), the dimensions include value creation, value delivery, and value capture. 
The parameters, or attributes, of the platform model are developed in relation to 
each dimension. Then, for each parameter, a nearly exhaustive list of alternative 
conditions is proposed to describe all of the possible permutations of platform 
model design. Several parameters and their subsequent conditions are retained 
from Täucher & Laudien’s (2018) original morphological analysis of platform 
model attributes (e.g. price discovery, pricing mechanism, pricing discrimination). 
However, we also integrated other parameters from literature and our own work 
including governance model (Muñoz and Cohen, 2018), revenue streams (Ritter 
and Schanz, 2019) as well as platform type and transaction content (Curtis and 
Lehner, 2019), among others. 

 
 
Figure 2. Prescriptive Framework of Sharing Economy Platform Models 
 
Platforms may possess multiple conditions within a given parameter, depending 
on the sharing practice experienced by the resource owner and resource user. For 
example, the platform may utilise multiple interfaces to mediate the sharing 
practice; in addition, the platform may open up their review system to all 
participants in the value chain or rely on multiple revenue streams to support their 
activities. However, we attempted to develop our framework to the same level of 
abstraction in a way that each condition was mutually exclusive. 
Next, because value is co-created between a resource owner and resource user 
through a platform, we sought to illustrate sharing as a practice to capture the 
processes of value co-creation (Figure 3). The first tier describes the overall sharing 
practice - e.g. what is shared, how it is shared, and between whom it is shared - 
whereas the second tier describes the sharing practice as experienced by the 
resource owner and resource user in relation to their key activity in the process of 

 
 
value co-creation. For each aspect of the sharing practice, we have suggested 
parameters of the platform model design that may influence how the resource 
owner and resource user experience the sharing practice. 
Figure 3. Schematic of Sharing as a Practice  
 
 
Discussion 
Our framework is prescriptive in that it is the result of an interpretive research 
process to prescribe potential platform model configurations, which depart from 
our prescriptive definition. Our framework is not intended to describe all practices 
attributed widely to the sharing economy. Instead, we seek to illustrate platform 
attributes and sharing practices that may contribute to more sustainable 
consumption. We suggest that our prescriptive framework may be used as a tool 
among entrepreneurs who aspire to develop social enterprises or ICT-enabled 

 
 
platforms that support sustainable consumption. Furthermore, this framework 
might especially be of interest for municipal and national governments, which 
have the sharing economy on their agenda for similar reasons and are interested 
in distinguishing sharing practices that support social and environmental 
sustainability. Furthermore, we hope to contribute to business model literature in 
describing and understanding value co-creation in triadic business models. 
Future Research 
Morphological analysis requires several iterations of development, testing, 
evaluation and refinement. This conference paper serves as an opportunity to 
receive feedback on the suggested parameters and conditions contained within 
our prescriptive framework of sharing platform models. With this input, we will 
define each parameter and condition within the framework and seek to test it 
using cases in several cities across the world as part of the ERC project Urban 
Sharing: Sustainability and Institutionalisation Pathways. We also intend to 
continue to develop the schematic detailing sharing as a practice and use this as a 
means to study value co-creation among actors contributing to sharing economy 
platforms. Furthermore, the schematic can be used like a worksheet with resource 
owners and users to investigate perceived experience and consumer behaviour 
associated with the mediated practice.  
This research has received funding from the European Research Council (ERC) under the 
European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (Grant Agreement No. 
771872). 
References 
Ahlemann, F., El Arbi, F., Kaiser, M.G., Heck, A., 2013. A process framework for 
theoretically grounded prescriptive research in the project management 
field. Int. J. Proj. Manag., The International Network for Business and 
Management 
Journals 
(INBAM) 
2012 
31, 
43–56. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijproman.2012.03.008 
Andreassen, T.W., Lervik-Olsen, L., Snyder, H., Van Riel, A.C.R., Sweeney, J.C., Van 
Vaerenbergh, Y., 2018. Business model innovation and value-creation: the 
triadic way. J. Serv. Manag. 29, 883–906. https://doi.org/10.1108/JOSM-05-
2018-0125 
Belk, R., 2014. You are what you can access: Sharing and collaborative 
consumption 
online. 
J. 
Bus. 
Res. 
67, 
1595–1600. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2013.10.001 

 
 
Camilleri, J., Neuhofer, B., 2017. Value co-creation and co-destruction in the 
Airbnb sharing economy. Int. J. Contemp. Hosp. Manag. 29, 2322–2340. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/IJCHM-09-2016-0492 
Chasin, F., von Hoffen, M., Cramer, M., Matzner, M., 2018. Peer-to-peer sharing 
and collaborative consumption platforms: a taxonomy and a reproducible 
analysis. 
Inf. 
Syst. 
E-Bus. 
Manag. 
16, 
293–325. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10257-017-0357-8 
Curtis, S.K., Lehner, M., 2019. Defining the Sharing Economy for Sustainability. 
Sustainability 11, 567. https://doi.org/10.3390/su11030567 
Davies, A.R., Donald, B., Gray, M., Knox-Hayes, J., 2017. Sharing economies: 
moving beyond binaries in a digital age. Camb. J. Reg. Econ. Soc. 10, 209–
230. https://doi.org/10.1093/cjres/rsx005 
de Oliveira, D.T., Cortimiglia, M.N., 2017. Value co-creation in web-based 
multisided platforms: A conceptual framework and implications for business 
model design. Bus. Horiz., THE GENERATIVE POTENTIAL OF EMERGING 
TECHNOLOGY 60, 747–758. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2017.07.002 
Ertz, M., Leblanc-Proulx, S., 2018. Sustainability in the collaborative economy: A 
bibliometric analysis reveals emerging interest. J. Clean. Prod. 196, 1073–
1085. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.06.095 
Habibi, M.R., Davidson, A., Laroche, M., 2017. What managers should know about 
the 
sharing 
economy. 
Bus. 
Horiz. 
60, 
113–121. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2016.09.007 
Im, K., Cho, H., 2013. A systematic approach for developing a new business model 
using morphological analysis and integrated fuzzy approach. Expert Syst. 
Appl. 40, 4463–4477. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2013.01.042 
Johnson, A.-G., Neuhofer, B., 2017. Airbnb – an exploration of value co-creation 
experiences in Jamaica. Int. J. Contemp. Hosp. Manag. 29, 2361–2376. 
https://doi.org/10.1108/IJCHM-08-2016-0482 
Kenney, M., Zysman, J., 2016. The Rise of the Platform Economy. Issues Sci. 
Technol. 32, 61–69. 
Lan, J., Ma, Y., Zhu, D., Mangalagiu, D., Thornton, T., 2017. Enabling Value Co-
Creation in the Sharing Economy: The Case of Mobike. Sustainability 9, 1504. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/su9091504 
Light, A., Miskelly, C., 2015. Sharing economy vs sharing cultures? Designing for 
social, economic and environmental good. Interact. Des. Archit. 24, 49–62. 
Lobbers, J., von Hoffen, M., Becker, J., 2017. Business Development in the Sharing 
Economy: A Business Model Generation Framework, in: 2017 IEEE 19th 
Conference on Business Informatics (CBI). Presented at the 2017 IEEE 19th 
Conference on Business Informatics (CBI), IEEE, Thessaloniki, Greece, pp. 
237–246. https://doi.org/10.1109/CBI.2017.44 

 
 
Martin, C.J., 2016. The sharing economy: A pathway to sustainability or a 
nightmarish form of neoliberal capitalism? Ecol. Econ. 121, 149–159. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolecon.2015.11.027 
Muñoz, P., Cohen, B., 2018. A Compass for Navigating Sharing Economy Business 
Models. Calif. Manage. Rev. 35. 
Osterwalder, A., Pigneur, Y., 2010. Business Model Generation: A Handbook for 
Visionaries, Game Changers, and Challengers. John Wiley & Sons. 
Plewnia, F., Guenther, E., 2018. Mapping the sharing economy for sustainability 
research. Manag. Decis. 56, 570–583. https://doi.org/10.1108/MD-11-2016-
0766 
Ranjbari, M., Morales-Alonso, G., Carrasco-Gallego, R., 2018. Conceptualizing the 
Sharing Economy through Presenting a Comprehensive Framework. 
Sustainability 10, 2336. https://doi.org/10.3390/su10072336 
Richardson, L., 2015. Performing the sharing economy. Geoforum 67, 121–129. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geoforum.2015.11.004 
Ritter, M., Schanz, H., 2019. The sharing economy: A comprehensive business 
model 
framework. 
J. 
Clean. 
Prod. 
213, 
320–331. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.12.154 
Täuscher, K., Laudien, S.M., 2018. Understanding platform business models: A 
mixed methods study of marketplaces. Eur. Manag. J. 36, 319–329. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2017.06.005 
Teece, D.J., 2010. Business Models, Business Strategy and Innovation. Long Range 
Plann. 43, 172–194. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lrp.2009.07.003 
Zhang, T.C., Jahromi, M.F., Kizildag, M., 2018. Value co-creation in a sharing 
economy: The end of price wars? Int. J. Hosp. Manag. 71, 51–58. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhm.2017.11.010 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Towards a sustainability assessment 
framework for the sharing economy 
 
Petra Soltész1,*, Gyula Zilahy1 
 
1Budapest University of Technology and Economics 
 
*solteszp@eik.bme.hu 
 
Extended abstract  
The businesses of the sharing economy have rapidly gained a foothold in many 
sectors of the economy.  However, the sustainability implications of the sharing 
economy have not been fully explored yet. Relevant publications make an effort 
to account for the various environmental and social impacts of such businesses, 
but systematic sustainability assessments of such operations are not available yet. 
Our research aims at uncovering the environmental and social implications of 
sharing economy businesses through the analysis of a ride share company and 
using the results to set up an assessment framework to allow of a more 
comprehensive analysis of the sustainability impacts of sharing economy 
businesses.  
We analyse the usage patterns and growth dynamics of a regional ride share 
company in Hungary with several million trips connecting settlements inside and 
outside of the country. Apart from analysing data received from the company, a 
questionnaire based survey is currently being prepared and conducted in order to 
reveal the changes in user behaviour and its implications on the environmental 
and social impacts of the transportation sector. 
Based on our analysis we can demonstrate the most important features of the 
regional ride share company and we can use these results to present the outlines 
of a general sustainability assessment framework for sharing economy businesses. 

 
 
We believe that this is a very timely effort since the fast rise of sharing economy 
businesses leaves policy makers without the appropriate tools to assess their 
impacts and influence their future development. 
Research problem 
The businesses of the sharing economy have rapidly gained a foothold in many 
sectors of the economy. Aside from tourism and transportation, innovative 
business models sprung up in many other sectors as well and are posing a 
challenge to incumbent businesses. Many of the businesses following new models 
of operations have grown exponentially over the last few years reaching or 
surpassing the market value of their traditional counterparts (Guttentag 2013, 
Dogru et al., 2019, Vivoda et al., 2018). 
However, the sustainability implications of the sharing economy have not been 
fully explored yet. Relevant publications make an effort to account for the various 
environmental and social impacts of such businesses, but systematic sustainability 
assessments of such operations are not available yet. Frenken (2017) analysed the 
environmental impacts of the sharing economy and came to the conclusion that 
peer to peer ride sharing causes rebound effects and policy makers should focus 
on these implications to ensure that sharing economy businesses do not have 
negative effects on the environment and foster sustainable consumption. 
Shaheen et al. (2012) found that car sharing has negative impacts on the 
environment and it is difficult to identify the tipping point where car sharing brings 
benefits over the traditional use of a private car. Hawlitschek et al. (2018) came to 
the conclusion that the motivation of the users of peer to peer sharing economy 
services to foster sustainable development plays a positive role in choosing these 
platforms instead of traditional means of transportation. Dreyer et. al (2017) 
developed a model for the evaluation of the stakeholder value of businesses using 
the business model of collaborative consumption and point at the importance of 
context, especially the differences between developed and developing countries. 
Our research aims at uncovering the environmental and social implications of 
sharing economy businesses through the analysis of a concrete ride share 
company and using the results to set up an assessment framework to allow of a 
more comprehensive analysis of the sustainability impacts of sharing economy 
businesses.  

 
 
The creation of an assessment framework is hindered by several factors, including 
the lack of detailed data describing the operation of sharing economy businesses 
and the limitations of available methodologies. Services offered by sharing 
economy businesses substitute services provided by traditional organisations, but 
the behaviour of the consumers and its implication for environmental and social 
impact has not been fully explored yet. Also, while sharing economy platforms 
may have significant sustainability impacts, platform providers have only limited 
control over the impacts of the whole platform. 
Apart from a better scientific understanding of the phenomena, a suitable 
assessment framework can serve a number of practical objectives, including 
improved decision making by both corporations and policy makers at the different 
levels.  
Approach and research methods 
On-going research at the Budapest University of Technology and Economics 
explores the usage patterns and growth dynamics of a regional ride share 
company with several million trips connecting settlements inside and outside of 
Hungary. 
The first phase of the research concentrated on analysing data provided by the 
company regarding the trips taken through the platform. This made it possible to 
analyse the basic features of the network: the composition of the users, the 
departure and destination settlements and their evolution over time and some 
aspects of the behaviour of the users – both drivers and passengers. In line with 
recent literature on networks, we came to the conclusion that taking settlements 
as nodes of the network created by the platform, the network can be understood 
as a scale free network (Barabasi, 1999). 
This first phase of the research, however, provided only limited results regarding 
the sustainability implications of the network since the database provided by the 
company was not designed with such purposes in mind and contained only basic 
information about reservations and trips.  
For this reason, the current second phase of the research utilises a survey 
methodology to uncover usage patterns of individuals registered on the platform. 
Whether the users of the platform travel more or less, whether by using the 
platform they substitute driving a car or travel by train/bus and other changes in 

 
 
user behaviour are surveyed. While this methodology is still not able to provide 
exact measures of possible rebound effects in the environmental domain, it can 
highlight tendencies as well as point at the focus areas which should be dealt with 
by the evaluation framework to be set up as a result. 
Results  
Such a combination of platform data with a survey of user behaviour can 
contribute to a better understanding of the environmental and social impacts of 
sharing economy businesses in many different ways. Based on our analysis we can 
demonstrate the most important features of the regional ride share company 
based in Hungary and we will use these results to present the outlines of a general 
sustainability assessment framework for sharing economy businesses.  
Our data analysis will also help us understand the motives of users of ride 
sharing company services, which is important in order to understand the 
transferability of our results to other sharing economy businesses. 
We believe that this is a very timely effort since the fast rise of sharing economy 
businesses leaves policy makers without the appropriate tools to assess their 
impacts and influence their future development. This is reflected in the widely 
differing reactions of governments to services provided by fast growing platforms 
(see e.g. Uber and Airbnb and the differences in local regulations regarding their 
operations).  
In our view a suitable assessment framework can answer whether a particular 
sharing economy business can provide a step towards sustainability in a certain 
region and what are the conditions under which a transition to a more sustainable 
society can be guaranteed. 
Keywords 
sustainable consumption, sharing economy, environmental impact, social impact, 
rebound effect 
 
 

 
 
References 
Barabási A-L., Albert, R. (1999) Emergence of Scaling in Random Network, Science 
286 pp. 509-512.  
Dogru, T., Mody, M., Suess, C. (2019) Adding evidence to the debate: Quantifying 
Airbnb's disruptive impact on ten key hotel markets, Tourism Management. 
72, 27-38. 
Dreyer, B., Lüdeke-Freund, F., Hamann, R., Faccer, K. (2017) Upsides and 
downsides of the sharing economy: Collaborative consumption business 
models’ stakeholder value impacts and their relationship to context, 
Technological Forecasting and Social Change. 125, 87-104 
Frenken K. (2017) Political economies and environmental futures for the sharing 
economy, Philosophical transactions of the Royal Society A. 375 (2095) 
Available 
from: 
https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/10.1098/rsta.2016.0367  
Guttentag, D. (2013) Airbnb: disruptive innovation and the rise of an informal 
tourism accommodation sector, Current Issues in Tourism. 18 (12), 1192-
1217.  Hawlitschek, F., Teubner, T., Gimpel, H. (2018) Consumer motives for 
peer-to-peer sharing, Journal of Cleaner Production. 204, 144-157.Shaheen, 
S.A., Mallery, M.A., Kingsley K.J. (2012) Personal vehicle sharing services in 
North America, Research in Transportation Business & Management. 3, 71–
81. 
Vivoda, J.M., Harmon, A.C., Babulal, G.M., Zikmund-Fisher, B.J. (2018) E-hail 
(rideshare) knowledge, use, reliance, and future expectations among older 
adults, Transportation Research Part F. 55, 426–434. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Track X: Practitioner Sessions 
 
 
 
 
PRACTITIONER SESSIONS 
TRACK X 

 
 
THE SMART BUSINESS MODELER – USING BUSINESS MODEL 
PATTERNS 
Chair: René Bohnsack, Smart Business Modeler Initiative, Católica Lisbon School 
of Business & Economics, Portugal 
 
 
This is an interactive session on the use of business model patterns for online 
business modeling. 
In this session we will address the use of business model patterns for sustainable 
innovation and entrepreneurship education. We present the online platform 
“Smart Business Modeler” (https://smartbusinessmodeler.com/) and how it 
makes use of business model patterns at the example of the Sustainable Business 
Model Pattern Pack of Lüdeke-Freund et al. (2018). Furthermore we show the 
potential for gamification of business modelling with the business model game 
Pitch! Last, we explore the potential for collaborative research based online 
business modelling and discuss the way forward. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
CLIMBING MOUNT THRIVEABILITY 
Chair: Ralph Thurm, Reporting 3.0 (a flagship program of Oncommons gGmbH), 
Berlin, Germany 
 
 
With the clock ticking, the design of our economic system needs to change 
drastically. A green, inclusive and open economy will only come to life through the 
sustainable and just distribution of vital resources. But if we are to realize new 
business models that follow a regenerative and redistributive approach to 
business, we must also develop ways to observe, measure and assess our progress. 
This poses exciting opportunities for academic research, something that the 
Academic Alliance of Reporting 3.0 is focusing at. 
Reporting 3.0 was formed in 2013 to tackle the challenges that were going unmet 
within the transition towards a better, fairer, more sustainable economy. Join 
them on an overview of the collective journey that will transform the greatest 
challenges in human history into opportunities to survive and thrive. Invoking 
Interface Founder Ray Anderson’s metaphor of ‘Mount Sustainability’, this 
workshop invites you to join in a climb of several stages.  
Your host for this session will be Ralph Thurm, MD of Reporting 3.0. He will be 
citing examples of successfully finished Transformation Journey Programs and 
offer opportunities for academics to join. 
 
 

 
 
Instead of an Epilogue 
 
 
Dear Friends, 
Instead of an academic reflection on some of the most remarkable lessons we 
have learned while preparing the conference and reviewing the many submissions 
we received, we want to say thank-you to the many people without whom this 
conference would not have been possible: 
Our deepest gratitude goes to … 
▪ Jan Jonker, for launching the NBM movement and the NBM conference 
series. 
▪ Romana Rauter, Nikolay Dentchev, Niels Faber, Jan Jonker and Korneel 
Hogendoorn for organising three excellent conferences in 2016, 2017, 
and 2018. We learned a lot from you. 
▪ Andreas Kaplan and ESCP Europe for supporting us in so many ways and 
allowing us to host NBM@Berlin 2019. 
▪ Danièle Le Roux, Tien Quynh Duong, Claudia Rudisch, Miriam Pirolo, 
Susanne Rasum and many more ESCP colleagues. 
▪ Romana Rauter, Thomas Wunder, and Henning Breuer for their 
discussion panels, and Nancy Bocken, Lorenzo Massa, and Stefan 
Schaltegger for their great and inspiring keynotes. 
▪ And all the voluntary session chairs, authors, presenters, and reviewers 
who contributed to NBM@Berlin 2019.  
You are a great community! 
The Conference Team 
 
And finally, 
My personal thank-you goes to … 
▪ Tobias Froese, simply for making this event possible. NBM@Berlin 2019 is 
mainly the result of Tobias’ invaluable project management skills, 
patience, and constant oversight. Well done! 
▪ Astrid Tröster, Claire Eckmann, and Harris Azhar, for the uncounted 
organisational issues and details they worked on. This includes the pre-
event, proceedings, setting up the campus, ordering food … and many, 
many more things. 
You are a great team! 
Florian 
 
 

 
 
Conference Team  
 
 
Conference Team @ ESCP Europe Berlin 
 
Florian Lüdeke-Freund – Conference Chair 
Professor for Corporate Sustainability, ESCP Europe Berlin 
Head of the Chair for Corporate Sustainability  
European Academic Director M.Sc. in Entrepreneurship and Sustainable Innovation 
fluedeke-freund@escpeurope.eu 
 
Tobias Froese – Conference Manager 
Research Assistant and PhD Student, Chair for Corporate Sustainability 
tfroese@escpeurope.eu / berlin@nbmconference.eu 
 
Astrid Tröster  
Chair Assistant 
atroester@escpeurope.eu 
Claire Eckmann 
Student Assistant, Chair for 
Corporate Sustainability 
ceckmann@escpeurope.eu 
Harris Azhar  
Student Assistant, Chair for 
Corporate Sustainability 
mazhar@escpeurope.eu 
 
 
Members of the Permanent International Scientific Committee 
 
 
 
 
Jan Jonker  
Professor of Sustainable Entrepreneurship 
Nijmegen School of Management 
Radboud University Nijmegen, Netherlands 
Nikolay A. Dentchev  
Associate Professor of 
Entrepreneurship and CSR 
Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) and 
KU Leuven, Belgium 
Niels Faber  
Nijmegen School of Management  
Radboud University Nijmegen, Netherlands 
Florian Lüdeke-Freund  
Professor for Corporate Sustainability 
ESCP Europe Business School, Berlin 
Romana Rauter 
Assistant Professor at the Institute of  
Systems Sciences, Innovation and  
Sustainability Research 
University of Graz, Austria 

 
 
About ESCP Europe Berlin 
 
 
ESCP Europe’s mission is to inspire and 
educate tomorrow’s business leaders. 
 
Established in 1819, ESCP Europe has 
educated 
generations 
of 
leaders 
and 
entrepreneurs. With its six urban campuses 
in Berlin, London, Madrid, Paris, Turin, and 
Warsaw, ESCP Europe's true European 
identity enables the provision of a unique 
style of cross-cultural business education and a global perspective on international 
management issues. ESCP Europe welcomes 5,000+ students and 5,000 executives from 
100 different nations every year, offering them a wide range of general management and 
specialized programmes (Bachelor, Masters, MBA, Executive MBA, PhD, and Executive 
Education). ESCP Europe is among the 1% of business schools worldwide to be triple-
accredited (AACSB, EQUIS, AMBA). 
 
In Germany, ESCP Europe Berlin is a state-recognized university and counts among the 
most prestigious and leading business schools in the country. ESCP Europe Berlin has 
particular expertise in the areas of Entrepreneurship, Sustainability Management, Digital 
Transformation as well as International Management.  
 
ESCP Europe worldwide 
The world’s first business school (est. 1819) 
6 campuses: Berlin, London, Madrid, Paris, Turin, and Warsaw 
 
Triple accredited 
AACSB – EQUIS – AMBA 
 
Values 
Excellence, Singularity, Creativity, Plurality 
 
Rankings  
#1 in Germany – European Business School – Financial Times Ranking 2018 
#5 worldwide – Master in Management – Financial Times Ranking 2018 
#11 worldwide – Executive MBA – Financial Times Ranking 2018 

Responsible Conference Chair:
Prof. Dr. Florian Lüdeke-Freund
Tel:  +49 (0) 30 32 007 222
Mail: ﬂuedeke-freund@escpeurope.eu
Conference Manager:
Tobias Froese
Tel:  +49 (0)30 32 007 187
Mail: tfroese@escpeurope.eu
ESCP Europe Berlin
Heubnerweg 8 - 10
14059 Berlin
Germany
NBM @ Berlin 2019
berlin@nbmconference.eu
ISBN: 
978-3-96705-001-1

