Chair for Corporate Sustainability, ESCP Europe Business School, Berlin 
Track I: Business Models For A Circular Economy ............................................ 23 
Sustainability ............................................................................................... 336 
Track IV: Circular Communication in a Circular Economy, How Social Media 
Track VII: New Business Models for Sustainability Transition ........................ 625 
sustainability studies. 
5 Professor for Sustainability Management, Head of the Centre for Sustainability Management 
(CSM) and the MBA Sustainability Management at Leuphana University Lüneburg, Germany 
MADE AT THE INTERSECTION OF BUSINESS MODEL AND SUSTAINABILITY 
model for sustainability” is as opposed to a more traditional profit-oriented model. 
Second, by focusing on “business model for sustainability” or “sustainable 
Finally, talking about circles, new topics such as circular economy and sharing 
economy should keep sustainability researchers on their toes to identify and help 
demonstrate different business cases for sustainability, to derive reusable design 
On the one hand, the fact that the sustainability lens applied to business models 
the sustainability discussion with a design twist - and moved it away from the 
"more normal" sustainability discussion ingrained in the normative (as in many 
model holds the potential to help sustainability research embrace more 
sustainability from the ties of merely being a strategy project leading to a 
sustainability report. The notion of value propositions has been an important 
integrate sustainability considerations in corporate strategy, the organization and 
its up- and downstream activities. Second, corporate sustainability research has 
▪ Understand the role of business (models) in sustainability transitions. 
oriented approaches in order to close the idea-action gap for sustainability. 
project we are already working on gamified methods to facilitate sustainability-
sustainability closer to the idea of design science research - things such as action 
circumstances sustainability research and business models can interact, but also 
Business models for a circular economy 
Social Entrepreneurship as a transformative force towards sustainability 
Circular communication in a circular economy: how social media communication shapes 
New business models for sustainability transition 
and sustainability and has been published on outlets such as the Academy of 
Sustainability transformation and new business models: The role of 
A sustainability transition of the economy and society requires 
sustainability transformations of the core business of companies, 
entrepreneurs as key actors initiating and managing sustainability 
entrepreneurs for sustainability transformations and while the business model 
for corporate sustainability, the links between the two have not been explored, so 
Stefan Schaltegger, PhD, is professor for sustainability management, head of the 
Centre for Sustainability Management (CSM) and the MBA programme at 
corporate sustainability, including business models, stakeholder theory, and 
sustainability performance measurement, accounting and management. Stefan 
journals and member of the jury of the German Sustainability Award. He is a 
potential role of business in driving the wider Circular Economy 
Engineering and Fellow at the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability 
In the last thirty years, the link of strategy and sustainability has come a long way 
how to make business sense of sustainability at this time in the 21st century? What 
integration of corporate strategy with sustainability, which is summarized in 
advisor to pioneering international initiatives that tackle sustainability challenges. 
Consulting Group. He is BCG’s expert principal on sustainability. His fields of 
expertise include sustainability strategy, circular economy, sustainable investing 
industry concerning sustainability opportunities. Moreover, he is responsible to 
manage BCG’s external relations with Sustainability Partners and Academia 
concerning sustainability topics. 
sustainability. According to Geanne, creativity, collaboration and sharing 
PROF. DR. DR. h.c. STEFAN SCHALTEGGER is professor for sustainability 
management, head of the Centre for Sustainability Management (CSM) and the 
methods of corporate sustainability, including business models, stakeholder 
theory, and sustainability performance measurement, accounting and 
challenging when these articles deal with sustainability issues, as this brings 
together two domains: business model and sustainability research. 
characterize the Anthropocene. His work suggests that managing for sustainability 
Management, Nature Sustainability, Organization Science, Organization Studies, 
and on sustainable business models in the circular economy. He has 70 academic 
sustainability. His research and consulting on the automotive industry has involved 
ROMANA RAUTER is a specialist in the field of Corporate Sustainability and 
Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Research at University of Graz. 
Austria. Her research and teaching interests include sustainability innovation, new 
and sustainable business models as well as strategic sustainability management. 
BUSINESS MODELS FOR A CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY 
TRACK IV CIRCULAR COMMUNICATION IN A CIRCULAR ECONOMY, HOW 
TRACK VII NEW BUSINESS MODELS FOR SUSTAINABILITY TRANSITION 
A CIRCULAR ECONOMY 
Track I: Business Models For A Circular Economy 
and environmental challenges. The Circular Economy (CE) is one of the 
circular economy requires a rethinking of supply chains into value cycles, forming 
the building blocks of a system transition. The circular economy aims to integrate 
adaptation of business models for the circular economy. In particular, we focus on 
Circular economy is a more recent economic model that aims to reconcile 
needed for a transition to a circular economy. One potential business approach 
categorize sustainable or circular business models (Lewandowski, 2016). The 
and Cocklin (2008) are tempting to develop an ideal type of a sustainability 
valuable products via a circular economy (cascading or closing loops) approach. 
of circular business models for valorising agro-waste and by-products and because 
Figure 1: Typology of circular business models for valorising agro-waste and by-
development of the circular economy. The typology is useful because it classifies 
of circular business models. However, it should not be considered as static: some 
Circular economy, business models, typology, agro-waste and by-products 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner 
EMF - Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2013) Towards the circular economy.  
Lewandowski, M. (2016) Designing the business models for circular economy - 
towards the conceptual framework. Sustainability. 8 (43), 1-28. 
Rood, T., Muilwijk, H. & Westhoek, H. (2017) Food for the circular economy. PBL 
Stubbs, W. & Cocklin, C. (2008) Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”. 
in the UK and the circular economy 
perhaps due to recent legislation and a shift towards a more circular economy 
industry potential to contribute to the transition to a circular economy. There are 
and the multitude of value they offer, that align to the circular economy principles. 
circular economy. This study will use a qualitative method and will draw upon four 
the transition to a circular economy. Additionally, by identifying the challenges 
to a circular economy. 
anaerobic digestion; circular economy; business models 
The concept of Circular Economy (CE) has attracted an increasing amount of 
circular economy, businesses from diverse sectors have started to explore ways to 
Urbinati, Chiaroni and Chiesa (2017) circular economy business models can be 
on sustainability and development of circular business models (Parida and 
approaches to include sustainability in business strategy and business models 
experience a lack of integration of sustainability issues in business development, 
organizations that are in a starting point to develop a circular economy business 
Circular economy, circular business models, value network, co-creation  
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2013) Towards the Circular Economy. Available 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C. and Ulgiati, S. (2016) A review on circular economy: The 
Parida, V. and Wincent, J. (2019) Why and how to compete through sustainability: 
Ritzén, S. and Ölundh Sandström, G. (2017) Barriers to the Circular Economy - 
material consumption, thereby paving the way for a circular economy (Laumann 
the footwear industry are familiar with circular business models based on PSS. 
the opportunity to implement circular business models based on eco-leasing?” We 
circular economy, PSS and eco-leasing; (ii) uncover the benefits and barriers 
are somewhat familiar with the concept of circular economy, while only two 
of circular business models based on eco-leasing by firms and consumers. While 
These findings extend extant knowledge on PSS-based circular business models. 
promises of a data-driven circular economy.  
Product-service systems (PSS), eco-leasing, footwear, circular economy 
Economy: A Literature Review. Sustainability, 10(8), 2758. 
Sustainability, 10, 2289.  
sustainability, and the ethical appeal of luxury brands. Fashion Theory, 16(3), 
Product/Service-Systems for a Circular Economy: The Route to Decoupling 
Tukker, A. (2015) Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy –
circular economy, business model experimentation, lean startup, lean analytics 
Circular business models in social 
sustainability within circular business models. The first objective of this paper is to 
investigate the circular business models that can be adopted by housing 
that circular business models are not isolated but situated in networks in which 
found that circular business models in housing associations are likely to be 
emergence of a new set of socially inclusive circular business models. 
Circular Economy in the Agricultural 
There is a need for a transition towards a more circular economy in our society. 
Transitioning to a circular economy represents a systemic shift that builds long-
However, the circular economy requires firms to rethink their business models. 
transitioning to circular economy by any sector including the agricultural sector is 
sustainability for achieving a circular economy (e.g. Lüdeke‐Freund et al., 2019). 
At the same time the research and understanding of circular business models is 
for improving, integrating and diffusing sustainability (Karlsson, 2019).Therefore, 
developing the circular business models and what policy evolution and behavioral 
(Hellström et al., 2015). Biogas closes the cycle and creates a circular economy 
example of a circular economy (Hagman and Eklund, 2016), Swedish farm-based 
and implementation of circular business models in this new situation. The results 
circular business models. Profitable circular business models and initiatives will 
transition towards a circular economy in agricultural businesses and how different 
De Angelis, R. (2016). A conceptualisation of circular business models and 
Ellen Macarthur Foundation (2019) Circular economy. Retrieved via: 
Business Model Innovation Process for Sustainability : Addressing the Status 
stakeholder business cases for sustainability. Sustainability Science 
sustainability: Insights on corporate sustainability in the Swedish farm-based 
circular economy business model patterns. Journal of Industrial Ecology, 
Circular economy, organizations, and 
circular economy from an organizational and managerial perspective. While 
circularity is advocated as a solution to sustainability-related issues, organizational 
Circular Economy, Management, Business Models, Literature Review. 
The notion of a circular economy has been gaining traction in recent years 
solution to sustainability-related issues, such as the accelerated use of limited 
Hekkert, 2017). The circular economy model is opposed to a linear model of mass 
Circular economy’s several definitions are derived from associated concepts, such 
related to interdisciplinary environmental sustainability research and, to a much 
Despite the interdisciplinary character of the concept of circular economy, 
reviewing literature on circular economy from 2010 to 2018, this research 
examines how the concept of circular economy has translated into organizational 
advancing knowledge about the circular economy concept and its organizational, 
In order to assess the circular economy concept and how it translates into 
circular economy? (ii) What are the roles played by business organizations in a 
circular economy? (iii) How is it understood in business organizations? (iv) How do 
circular business models? 
business school research rankings. However, the notion of a circular economy 
literature on circular economy is scattered through several research fields. In 
Recycling, and Sustainability. In addition to the expression “circular economy”, we 
traditional business models evolve towards circular business models? This category 
advancing the circular economy concept, assessing drivers and enablers of a 
circular economy, evaluating the implementation of circular strategies, and 
developing circular business models. 
Mapping definitions and practices of the circular economy 
Defining circular economy 
sustainability-related issues (Bocken, Olivetti, Cullen, Potting, & Lifset, 2017; 
2018). Indeed, the circular economy concept is particularly interesting because it 
Circular economy has been defined in several scholarly studies as well as in policy 
concept. Most frequently, circular economy definitions comprise a combination of 
p. 7) provides the most common definition, according to which circular economy 
definitions of the circular economy concept, Kirchherr and colleagues (2017, pp. 
integrates the key factors that distinguish the notion of circular economy from 
other sustainability-related concepts. First, their definition not only implies a 
that the circular economy requires. Second, it explicitly addresses the four 4R 
recovery), thus reinforcing the core principles of the circular economy as opposed 
pillars and key enablers of the circular economy. Fourth, according to this 
definition, circular economy goes beyond economic prosperity and environmental 
the circular economy literature (Merli, Preziosi, & Acampora, 2018; Moreau, 
As expected from a new stream of research, the concept of circular economy 
strategies, the circular economy concept “offers a new framing of these strategies 
argue that circular economy has already become an essentially contested concept, 
enquiry is appropriate”. According to them, circular economy is a cluster concept 
comprising groups of subconcepts. Furthermore, they argue, the circular economy 
(since all societal sectors are interested in circular economy), (ii) internal 
(that is, how rapidly circular economy has drawn worldwide attention despite little 
definitions and applications of the circular economy concept) (Korhonen, Nuur, 
The circular economy concept holds the promise of a paradigm shift. However, a 
be the case. So as to assess whether circular economy is a new sustainability 
similarities and differences between sustainability and circular economy. The 
While in sustainability responsibilities are shared, though not clearly defined, in 
the circular economy both institutional actors (regulators and policymakers) and 
are concerned, sustainability refers to an aligned interest between stakeholders. 
In turn, the use of circular economy is motivated by economic advantages for 
Reviewing some limitations and challenges of the circular economy concept 
research content of the [circular economy] concept is superficial and unorganized” 
attention that circular economy has recently raised among scholars, businesses, 
underpin the circular economy. The first issue regards the definitions of waste, 
which miss energetic waste. Another issue refers to how the circular economy is 
argues, is that the circular economy relies on an economic model supported by 
assumption of circular economy thinking disputed by Skene (2018) concerns eco-
sustainability would result from increased efficiency. Nonetheless, eco-efficiency 
and colleagues (2017, p. 497) argue the circular economy concept “lacks the social 
a circular economy would not occur. From an institutional perspective, institutions 
levels. Circular economy strategy implementation requires efforts at the micro, 
technological development to a circular economy beyond industrial parks. In this 
line, Garmulewicz and colleagues (2018) evaluate how a circular economy could 
circular economy, a few obstacles should be considered. First, technological 
circular economy. However, research indicates that there is still need for 
achieve economic efficiency and environmental sustainability” (Pagotto & Halog, 
Circular Economy Strategies Database, including 45 strategies to be applied to 
different parts of the value chain. The second is a Circular Economy 
argued that the successful implementation of circular economy-related initiatives 
implementation of circular economy initiatives. At the meso level, China has 
Developing research on circular business models 
Research has focused of the definition, and forms of circular business models. 
can be considered critical strategies for circular business models. Furthermore, it 
only within a larger value chain network. Thus, circular business models may give 
according to circular economy principles. Second, Urbinati, Chiaroni, and Chiesa 
circular business models. This taxonomy builds on two major dimensions: 
taxonomy aims to evaluate the effects or business models on true sustainability 
business models (SBM). SBMs range from Business Sustainability 1.0 – in reference 
to refined shareholder value management – to Business Sustainability 2.0 – with 
impacts measured based on the triple bottom line – to Business Sustainability 3.0 
(True Sustainability). According to the authors, a truly sustainable business “looks 
that that major sustainability issues cannot be solved by businesses alone.  
Integrating circular business models with sustainable business models and value 
In addition to research on the path from sustainable to circular business models, 
circular business models. At any rate, these studies examine business models in 
light of concepts associated with circular economy, particularly sustainability and 
(2018) propose a framework to integrate circular business models and supply 
circular business models drive circular supply chains in closing loops, slowing 
Sustainability-oriented business model innovation can also be examined through 
it allows for a triple bottom line perspective to sustainability, therefore including 
Circular business models: areas of implementation 
Research suggests that most circular business models are predominantly 
business model based on circular economy principles might lead a company to 
design, and the use of new materials. Research shows that most circular economy-
account the challenges associated with circular business models and product 
research indicates that the main source of economic value from circular economy 
One key issue in the transition towards a circular business models lies in 
increasingly interested in the potential benefits of the circular economy and are 
not been included among the core elements of circular business models. Indeed, 
Circular economy, organizations, and management 
The notion of a circular economy holds the promise of a paradigm shift, but how 
research has been relatively silent on the circular economy concept and on the 
and approaches from sustainability research might shed light on concepts key to 
the development of a circular economy. For example, an intergenerational 
interests and help expand circular economy’s main drivers. 
meaningful contribution to circular economy thinking and implementation. For 
of circular economy initiatives. Indeed, this research demonstrates the value of 
consistent incremental actions. A shift towards a circular economy requires the 
these various systems might help us get closer to an ideal circular economy. 
These insights might inform empirical research on circular economy. One such 
help assess the effectiveness of circular economy-related initiatives. 
This research examined the circular economy concept, its assumptions, and 
Our study reviewed the potential of the circular economy concept and how it holds 
Future organizational and management research on circular economy can include 
development of the social dimension missing in circular economy thinking, thus 
circular economy calls for more empirical research that critically appraises 
successes and failures of circular economy implementation. 
Blomsma, F., & Brennan, G. (2017). The Emergence of Circular Economy: A New 
the Circularity to the Next Level: A Special Issue on the Circular Economy. 
business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and 
Sustainability. Organization & Environment, 29(2), 156-174. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2013). Towards the Circular Economy: Economic 
Esposito, M., Tse, T., & Soufani, K. (2018). Introducing a Circular Economy: New 
Forum for the Future. (2018). The Circular Economy Business Model Toolkit. 
Technology as an Enabler of the Circular Economy: What Potential Does 3D 
models and supply chains for the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner 
Economy e A new sustainability paradigm? Journal of Cleaner Production, 
Services (CIRAIG). (2015). Circular economy: a critical literature review of 
Kalmykova, Y., Sadagopan, M., & Rosado, L. (2018). Circular economy – From 
Korhonen, J., Honkasalo, A., & Seppälä, J. (2018). Circular Economy: The Concept 
Korhonen, J., Nuur, C., Feldmann, A., & Birkie, S. E. (2018). Circular economy as an 
Producer Responsibility and the Circular Economy. California Management 
Lacy, P., & Rutqvist, J. (2015). Waste to Wealth: The Circular Economy Advantage. 
Circular Economy A Framework for Resource Management at the Mine Site 
of circular economy value propositions for consumers: Using “washing 
Mathews, J. A., Tan, H., & Hu, M.-C. (2018). Moving to a Circular Economy in China: 
circular economy? A systematic literature review. Journal of Cleaner 
Why Social and Institutional Dimensions Matter for the Circular Economy. 
Murray, A., Skene, K., & Haynes, K. (2017). The Circular Economy: An 
Nußholz, J. L. (2017). Circular Business Models: Defining a Concept and Framing an 
Emerging Research Field. Sustainability, 9(1810), 1-16. 
Pagotto, M., & Halog, A. (2015). Towards a Circular Economy in Australian Agri-
circular economy: A structured multiple-case analysis of business models. 
development and circular economy: Alternative concepts for trans-
Skene, K. R. (2018). Circles, spirals, pyramids and cubes: why the circular economy 
cannot work. Sustainability Science, 13, 479–492. 
Su, B., Heshmati, A., Geng, Y., & Yu, X. (2013). A review of the circular economy in 
the circular economy concept. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 
Sustainability
Sustainability Science
Sustainability Science
Sustainability
circular economy  
This article introduces the ‘dynamic circular economy-driven business model 
seizing/designing business model concepts for circular economy. The configurator 
Business model innovation, circular economy, business model configurator, 
Often seen as a means to achieving sustainability, circular economy (CE) is gaining 
stakeholders and for the aspects of CE and sustainability (e.g. economic, resource 
manufacturing companies decide to move towards circular economy. Its purpose 
This paper is one of the outcomes of the research project CIRCit (Circular Economy 
Sustainability 
discussions about Circular Economy.  We are particularly grateful for the technical 
Last: Product Design for Circular Business Models. 
sustainability gap, Journal of Cleaner Production, Elsevier Ltd, 174, 746–762. 
design and business model strategies for a circular economy, Journal of 
Circular Economy in Organizations – Guide. 
Forum for the Future and Unilever. (2016), Circular business models, Circular 
business model pattern taxonomy — 45 patterns to support sustainability-
Circular Economy Business Model Patterns, Journal of Industrial Ecology, 23 
Changing business value for the circular economy, Business Strategy and the 
innovation for circular economy and sustainability: A review of approaches, 
Planing, P. (2018), Towards a circular economy - how business model innovation 
circular economy business models, Journal of Cleaner Production, Elsevier 
Weetman, C. (2016), A Circular Economy Handbook for Business and Supply 
Could Circular Business Models 
 2University of Cambridge, Centre for Industrial Sustainability 
sustainability in their strategy consideration. Business model innovation looks at 
innovation concept with sustainability is mainly due to sustainability being treated 
that integrate sustainability (Barquet et al., 2016).  
“circular economy” has provided interesting insights on the challenges faced by 
capturing value through circular business models (Jiao, 2017).  
of sustainability goal-supporting activities and design into their business approach, 
means of creating balance between the three main sustainability pillars 
that it offers to embed sustainability concerns in manufacturer’s offerings, EOL in 
This study presents an industrial challenge and establishes that a sustainability-
This work is funded by H2020 TRUST (Twinning for industrial sustainability) and 
Circular Business Models, E-waste Management, EOL Management, Refrigerator 
redesign for the Circular Economy : a literature review and a multiple case 
Nußholz, J. L. K. (2017) ‘Circular business models: Defining a concept and framing 
an emerging research field’, Sustainability (Switzerland), 9(10), pp. 14–17. 
Through Sustainability: The Sustainable Value Analysis ToolA new tool helps 
sustainability.’, Research Technology Management. Taylor & Francis, 60(3), 
In a circular economy, organizations search for business models that aim for 
sustainability, multiple value creation, circular economy, business models, value 
The concept of a circular economy is recognized by both academics and 
Circular economy 
Circular economy is defined as “an economic and industrial system where material 
condition for realizing a circular economy includes the development of new 
circular economy is indicated as one of the important conditions to promote 
Operating in a circular economy requires not only a proper management of raw 
loops (Mentink, 2014). Circular business models are by nature networked: they 
economy while others face major setbacks. Circular economy is defined as “an 
directors and sustainability experts. Data was collected on the vision towards 
sustainability, current sustainable efforts, value propositions, multiple value 
the ‘circular offer’ to the market, which is in a circular economy created by 
Findings indicate that sustainability is not on the top of the mind of the distributors 
circular context and to develop future strategies for a circular economy. It provides 
value. In a circular economy, the value is recaptured by feeding the complete 
There is need for new circular business models. Circular business models should 
transition to a circular economy. This is in line with findings of Pulizzi (2012), who 
The paper aims to contribute to accelerating the transition to a circular economy 
and business model strategies for a circular economy, Journal of Industrial 
Ellen McArthur Foundation (2015). Towards a circular economy: business rationale 
Kalmykova, Y., Sadagopan, M., & Rosado, L. (2018). Circular economy–From 
Lieder, M., & Rashid, A. (2016). Towards circular economy implementation: a 
a tool for business model innovation in a circular economy. Doctoral thesis, 
Reike, D., Vermeulen, W. J., & Witjes, S. (2018). The circular economy: New or 
the circular economy through a focus on history and resource value 
Topi, C. (2016). Implementation of circular economy business models by 
Sustainability, 8(11), 1212. 
sustainability: A co-evolutionary analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, 
contribute to a circular economy. 33 cases have been studied and semi-structured 
and cultural factors. Findings indicate that the transition to a circular economy in 
circular economy, business models, agricultural sector, success factors 
Today’s societies face many sustainability problems, such as increased amounts of 
successfully market their sustainability solution requires suitable circular business 
plurality in conceptualizations of circular business models. For example, Bocken, 
Despite the advances in circular business models, a case can be made that present 
The majority of conceptualizations of circular business models do not take into 
circular business models should deliver benefits for the environment, while at the 
transition towards a circular economy (Bocken et al., 2017). Therefore, many 
The literature on circular business models, as well as the literature on collaborative 
recycling. Moreover, for the sustainability innovation to have an impact, it needs 
between the criteria. Second, we studied three cases of circular economy projects 
2 Our empirical case is a circular economy initiative around textile fibres. Textile fibres that were 
circular business models that are also collaborative and scalable at the same time. 
Business models, circular economy, collaborative, upscaling, recycling 
sign and business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of 
the circularity to the next level: a special issue on the circular economy. 
Sustainability South Africa. 
Circular Economy Business Model Patterns. Journal of Industrial Ecology.  
for circular economy and sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of 
Institute for Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability 
The implementation of Circular Economy practices is a highly relevant issue for 
various concepts have emerged including the Circular Economy (CE). According to 
the Circular Economy to resource input, waste and emission output” (e.g., 
engine using the keywords “circular economy” and then refining the search by 
Sustainability 
display sustainability. 
improving sustainability 
Sustainability is displayed by companies that decrease their environmental impact 
light on the companies’ cultures. If sustainability itself does not constitute a reason 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering. Taylor & 
Eco-innovation Road to the Circular Economy. Ecological Economics. 145, 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2012) Towards the Circular Economy: Economic and 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation, (2013) Towards the Circular Economy 2. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2015) Towards a Circular Economy : Business 
Economy – A new sustainability paradigm? Journal of Cleaner Production. 
models and supply chains for the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner 
Geng, Y. et al. (2012) Towards a national circular economy indicator system in 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., Ulgiati, S. (2016) A review on circular economy: The 
and practices towards circular economy: a supply chain perspective. 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D., Hekkert, M. (2017) Conceptualizing the circular economy: 
Truijens, A., Hekkert, M. (2018) Barriers to the Circular Economy: Evidence 
Lewandowski, M. (2016) Designing the business models for circular economy-
towards the conceptual framework. Sustainability (Switzerland), 8(1), 1–28. 
for sustainability. The 14th European Roundtable on Sustainable Production 
Masurel, E. (2007) Why SMEs invest in environmental measures: sustainability 
Integrating Backcasting and Eco-Design for the Circular Economy: The BECE 
circular economy - A Multiple Correspondence Analysis of 63 metrics. 
Pheifer, A.G., (2017). Barriers and Enablers to Circular Business Models. A 
innovation and its effects on economic and sustainability innovation 
Reike, D., Vermeulen, W. J. V. and Witjes, S. (2018) The circular economy: New or 
of the Circular Economy through a Focus on History and Resource Value 
Ritzén, S., Sandström, G. Ö. (2017) Barriers to the Circular Economy - integration 
Implementation of circular economy business models by small and medium-
sized enterprises (SMEs): Barriers and enablers. Sustainability (Switzerland), 
Stahel, W. R. (2012) The business angle of a circular economy – higher 
Zamfir, A. M., Mocanu, C. and Grigorescu, A. (2017) Circular economy and decision 
models among European SMEs. Sustainability (Switzerland), 9(9), 1-15. 
This paper aims to ground the study of circular economy business models (CEBMs) 
circular economy, closed loop, circular business model, sustainable production, 
Consumer Acceptance of Circular Economy  
In response to these threats, the idea of the Circular Economy (CE) has gained 
Korhonen, Honkasalo and Seppälä, 2018) and circular economy business models 
increasingly circular business models and products may look, feel, or behave 
Consequently, SPT has become a promising lens for investigating sustainability 
role in the circular economy. 
Circular Economy, Circular Economy Business Model, Consumer Acceptance, 
circular economy’, Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering. Taylor 
Borrello, M. et al. (2017) ‘Consumers’ perspective on circular economy strategy 
for reducing food waste’, Sustainability (Switzerland), 9(1). doi: 
EMF (2012) Towards the Circular Economy, Ellen MacArthur Foundation. Available 
Geisendorf, S. and Pietrulla, F. (2017) ‘The circular economy and circular economic 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C. and Ulgiati, S. (2016) ‘A review on circular economy: The 
Hobson, K. et al. (2018) ‘Systems of practice and the Circular Economy: 
Hofmann, F. (2019) ‘Circular Business Models: Business approach as driver or 
obstructer of sustainability transitions?’, Journal of Cleaner Production. 
Kirchherr, J. et al. (2017) ‘Breaking the Barriers to the Circular Economy’, 
Korhonen, J., Honkasalo, A. and Seppälä, J. (2018) ‘Circular Economy: The Concept 
Circular Economy Business Model Patterns’, 23(1), pp. 36–61. doi: 
McMeekin, A. and Southerton, D. (2012) ‘Sustainability transitions and final 
circular economy? A systematic literature review’, Journal of Cleaner 
Planing, P. (2015) ‘Business Model Innovation in a Circular Economy Reasons for 
Non-Acceptance of Circular Business Models’, Open Journal of Business 
Reike, D., Vermeulen, W. J. V. and Witjes, S. (2018) ‘The circular economy: New or 
of the Circular Economy through a Focus on History and Resource Value 
Shove, E. and Walker, G. (2010) ‘Governing transitions in the sustainability of 
Su, B. et al. (2013) ‘A review of the circular economy in China: Moving from 
Tukker, A. (2015) ‘Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy - 
circular economy business models’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 168. doi: 
This paper investigates the problem of developing circular economy business 
recent attention to circular economy in both research and practice, applications 
innovating circular business models in order to transition their cradle-to-grave 
shortfalls of current circular economy approaches in building is a lack of business 
Theory development on sustainable business models including a circular economy 
Scholars utilize different definitions of circular economy that may consider the 
Ellen McArthur Foundation (EMF) definition is used: ‘A Circular Economy is an 
2019). Thus far, the focus on circular economy business models has tended 
describe the ideological conflict arising from circular economy standards within a 
review of circular economy for buildings, Hossain and Ng (2018), find that most 
research that considers circular economy for building either consider cradle-to-
(p.767). They also point to economic and social sustainability, fundamentally tied 
to the use phase of buildings: ‘Sustainability assessment cannot be fully evaluated 
detailed planning for the life cycle of a building) by sustainability importance, 
captured in circular business models for building. Further, the initial findings from 
sustainability (landing instead at fourth place out of the factors). However, they 
buildings, in circular economy business models. Although circular economy aims 
to approach sustainability from a life cycle perspective, not all life cycle phases are 
phase highly impacts human health and environmental sustainability, several 
circular business models that incorporate value from the use phase – for example 
tangible for companies attempting circular economy if their business focuses on 
can plan their participation. Yet in terms of sustainability, there is some irony here: 
circular construction; circular business models; life cycle; use phase; valuation. 
and business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial 
EMF, 2013. Towards the Circular Economy - Opportunities for the Consumer 
EMF, 2019. Concept: What is a circular economy? A framewrk for economy that is 
Flynn, A., & Hacking, N. (2019). Setting standards for a circular economy: A 
a circular economy approach to the construction and demolition sector. A 
environmental impact assessment towards adoption of circular economy: 
Lacy, P., & Rutqvist, J. (2015). Waste to wealth : The circular economy advantage. 
Leising, E., Quist, J., & Bocken, N. (2018). Circular Economy in the building sector: 
What gets measured, gets done: Development of a Circular Economy 
measurement scale for building industry. Sustainability (Switzerland), 10(7). 
Models for a Circular Economy. In S. N. Grösser, A. Reyes-Lecuona, & G. 
towards higher levels of sustainability, for example through the use of 
referring to the inclusion of sustainability goals in corporate strategy; and b) the 
sustainability management to develop a sustainable organization. Journal of 
management practices, and the most recent ongoing transitions by sustainability 
periodically experienced the embedding of corporate responsibility sustainability 
sustainability, however, significantly changed the shape of a new emerging 
transitions, particularly in the context of environmental sustainability transitions 
BANSAL, P. & DESJARDINE, M. R. 2014. Business sustainability: It is about time. 
sustainability: Theory, evidence and policy, Cheltenham, Edward Elgar 
GEELS, F. W. 2011. The multi-level perspective on sustainability transitions: 
KEMP, R., SCHOT, J. & HOOGMA, R. 1998. Regime shifts to sustainability through 
value logics and the heterogeneity of sustainability business models. Long 
new role for business in sustainability transitions. Journal of Cleaner 
MARKARD, J., RAVEN, R. & TRUFFER, B. 2012. Sustainability transitions: An 
sustainability: A co-evolutionary analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, 
SHOVE, E. & WALKER, G. 2010. Governing transitions in the sustainability of 
sustainability-driven trend towards servitization. 
managing the company for stability and sustainability, than for growth; a 
sustainability 
sustainability: A conceptual model found inside the black box of 
A possible pathway towards sustainability transformation requires mass markets 
This paper focus on aspect of business model innovation for sustainability and 
business model for sustainability (c.f. Boons and Lüdeke-Freund, 2012; Stubbs and 
business models for sustainability, business model transformation, large 
Stubbs, W. & Cocklin, C. (2008), Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”, 
bottom-line sustainability. Among the most interesting and effective examples of 
goal of this paper is to investigate how and to what extent sustainability aspects 
business model archetypes. To do so, the authors applied a selective and inductive 
fulfil the quest for corporate sustainability.  
mission for hybrid organisations oriented at bottom-of-the-pyramid sustainability, 
Schaltegger, Lüdeke-Freund, & Hansen 2016). As a result, corporate sustainability 
argued for a substantial lag between sustainability talk and practice in large 
corporate sustainability (Gallo & Christensen, 2011; Hörisch, Johnson & 
organisational changes for sustainability, albeit not a guarantee of success, as 
the change for corporate sustainability into being (Bocken et al., 2014; Schaltegger 
corporate sustainability, while at the same time involving fewer risks than other 
is considered an important opportunity to develop corporate sustainability 
2015b). As a result, their business models have been defined as “sustainability-
given by the fact that these organisations, while addressing sustainability issues, 
build their entire business model around sustainability. In addition, studies on 
business models oriented to triple-bottom-line sustainability is still missing. These 
hybrid organisations integrate sustainability aspects into their ecological-inclusive 
innovation can serve the quest for corporate sustainability. A sound research 
investigate how hybrid organisations integrate sustainability aspects in innovative 
sustainability is concerned. We will make use of colours to indicate whether 
are somehow related to the environmental sustainability realm. 
business model archetypes, which we called “young sunflower” and “adult 
Alberti, F.G. & Varon Garrido, M.A. (2017) Can profit and sustainability goals co-
to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Journal of Environmental, Cultural, Economic and Social Sustainability, 6(2), 
sustainability 
Organisations: A Case Study in the Agricultural Sector. Sustainability, 10(9), 
Barlow, C. Y. (2017) Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a 
of Organizational Size and Ownership on Sustainability-Related Behaviors. 
Gray, R. (2010) Is accounting for sustainability actually accounting for 
sustainability...and how would we know? An exploration of narratives of 
Sustainability Management and Company Size: A Knowledge-Based View. 
Kourula, A., Pisani, N. & Kolk, A. (2017) Corporate sustainability and inclusive 
research. Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability, 24,14–18. 
Lozano, R. (2015) A Holistic Perspective on Corporate Sustainability Drivers. 
model innovation: exploring evidences in sustainability reporting. Procedia 
Sustainability and the Role of Business Model Innovation - Developing a 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues. Organization 
United Nations Global Compact (2013) Global Corporate Sustainability Report 
Foundations for Corporate Sustainability. Journal of Management Studies 
the cognitive barriers to sustainability transitions. The framework developed 
commercial or sustainability logics.  
approaches that address sustainability challenges, and contrast this with the 
logics with specific focus on commercial and sustainability logics. Finally, I bring 
This paper focuses on the commercial and sustainability logics, which represent 
value that is the focus is financial. Under the sustainability logic, individuals see 
organisations as the basis of interaction. Value under the sustainability logic is 
Sustainability  
commercial logic, as well as sustainable business models and the sustainability 
Similarly, the sustainable business model reflects the sustainability logic with a 
practices) for commercial and sustainability logics, respectively); sizes and depth of colour 
taxonomies may have sustainable forms, if influenced by the sustainability logic. 
sustainability gap’, Journal of Cleaner Production. Elsevier Ltd, 174, pp. 746–
sustainable business model archetypes’, Journal of Cleaner Production. 
Breuer, H. et al. (2018) ‘Sustainability-oriented business model development: 
value logics and the heterogeneity of sustainability business models’, Long 
taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model 
in developing business models for sustainability’, Journal of Cleaner 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues’, Organization 
sustainability 
Of the many business model templates devised to promote sustainability, one 
to sustainability while at the same time reducing costs and thereby improving 
Capitalism (Hawken et al., 2000), an influential tract on sustainability, design, 
not explicitly declare itself to be oriented to sustainability, nor does it attempt to 
that doing business in 2018 implied making sustainability-oriented decisions, but 
However, this choice was not related directly to sustainability. The restaurant’ 
sustainability practices. 
sustainability. Not unexpectedly, the benefits of this design approach are more 
multifunctional tool for designing effective strategies for sustainability. Currently, 
Etzion, D. 2018. Management for sustainability. Nature Sustainability, 1, 744-749. 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable Production 
Being a reflection of corporate sustainability strategy, sustainable business model 
commercially oriented businesses to fully refocus on sustainability challenges and 
from an empirical case concerning the sustainability strategy work of the Kekkilä 
capital-based approach is proposed to connect corporate sustainability 
performance with the concept of strong sustainability (Nikolaou et al., 2019). 
corporate sustainability. We used the Finna search service of the Lappeenranta 
corporate sustainability activities and firm performance but also the literature on 
drivers and motives for sustainability actions. We found cost and revenue impacts 
Strategically integrated corporate sustainability; Cost 
Long-term sustainability and survival 
Sustainability 
Increased ability to meet (sustainability oriented) 
Increased ability to meet (sustainability oriented) 
stakeholder expectations, e.g. sustainability-oriented 
Many previous studies on corporate sustainability have focused on “does it pay to 
sustainability activities and economic performance of a company. However, the 
sustainability may not be profitable for another company or destroys value from 
another stakeholder´s perspective or in another dimension of sustainability 
Group’s sustainability strategy work. Kekkilä has ambitious goal to move from 
a larger food system and solving a global food challenge. It has set six sustainability 
sustainable product portfolio and services and it’s three intended sustainability 
increased sustainability, livability of the environment and environmental well-
trade-off between short-term and long-term sustainability orientation, and there 
implementing sustainability activity encourage to increase the sustainability 
in company’s financial capital. The second type covers sustainability activities 
Abdelkafi, N. & Täuscher, K. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability From a 
Azapagic, A. (2003) Systems approach to corporate sustainability: A general 
of capitals and the framing of multiple capitals. Sustainability Accounting, 
sustainability. Organization & Environment. 29, 156-174. 
corporate sustainability into strategic management: A literature review. 
Barlow, C.Y. (2017) Business model innovation for sustainability: Towards a 
Sustainability 
content/uploads/2018/05/FIBS_Sustainability2018_Summary.pdf 
Sustainability: Towards an Integrative Framework. Journal of Business Ethics, 
sustainability. Business Strategy and the Environment. 24(2), 102-122. 
sustainability challenges into competitive advantage: Multiple case studies 
corporate sustainability performance: A strong sustainability-based view of 
developing business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
sustainability: Origins, present research, and future avenues. Organization 
sustainability: The role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability. International Journal of Innovation and Sustainable 
Yang, M. & Evans, S. (2019) Product-service system business model archetypes 
and sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. 220, 1156-1166.  
Sustainability is more and more becoming a critical success factor for firms; the 
shared value and business case for sustainability conceptions can support business 
Sustainable business model, business case for sustainability, small business, 
Effective implementation of sustainability into firms’ business models requires a 
sustainability, in order to overcome the old ideas about corporate social 
Firms’ strategic approach towards changes led by sustainability can be described 
recognition of the business case for sustainability (Schaltegger et al. 2012), which 
These drivers are in fact describing the potential positive impact of sustainability 
sustainability inside it means rethinking business model components 
model for sustainability (BMfS) (Schaltegger et al. 2016). 
studies have analyzed the peculiarities of SMEs in terms of sustainability 
What SMEs think about large firm’s approach towards sustainability and 
questions about their vision of sustainability and firm purposes, together with 
benefits and constraints experienced in sustainability implementation. The firms 
perception of the business case for sustainability; among the benefits described, 
differentiation policies enabled by sustainability practices and products; also 
time span for firm’s aims: implementing sustainability cannot be associated with 
innate values (“sustainability is in the DNA”), they all have in mind the economic 
by product innovation. But in most cases sustainability is perceived as leading 
entrepreneur’s approach towards sustainability, appear the most influential for 
Large firms also assert the pivotal role of reputation as driver of sustainability 
other sustainability tools; but none of these factors (neither the costs, nor the 
overcome potential barriers; by contrast, when sustainability is not embedded in 
most interviewees assert that sustainability implementation could be easier for 
most of time without a genuine embeddedness of sustainability into business 
of the economic driver of sustainability, but conversely do believe it can lead to 
towards sustainability. 
sustainability management to develop a sustainable organization. Journal of 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Bos‐Brouwers, H. E. J. (2010). Corporate sustainability and innovation in SMEs: 
Cantele, S., & Zardini, A. (2018). Is sustainability a competitive advantage for small 
businesses? An empirical analysis of possible mediators in the sustainability–
towards sustainability? Role of interactions between pressures, barriers, and 
the uptake of sustainability practices: the case of New Zealand. Journal of 
corporate sustainability into strategic management: a literature review. 
sustainability management and company size: A knowledge‐based view. 
Klewitz, J., & Hansen, E. G. (2014). Sustainability-oriented innovation of SMEs: a 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable Production 
developing business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
sustainability: The role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability. International Journal of Innovation and Sustainable 
sustainability: Origins, present research, and future avenues. Organization & 
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a sustainability business model. 
sustainability and protection of the planet. The concern with this type of value has 
Carvalho, J. M. S. & Sousa, C. A. A. (2015) Social entrepreneurship, sustainability, 
sustainability? 
Sustainability, 
sustainability vision: when companies and start-up firms build business models 
‘for’ (voluntary), or ‘of’ (as a reaction to regulations) sustainability, they also 
business models ‘for’ or ‘of’ sustainability) , job-fit (e.g. individual-skills based 
Barlow, C. Y. (2017). Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards 
Looking inside the black box of the relationship between sustainability 
Klewitz, J., & Hansen, E. G. (2014). Sustainability-oriented innovation of SMEs: a 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable Production 
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a “Sustainability Business 
Tiemann, I., Breuer, H., Fichter, K., & Lüdeke Freund, F. (2018). Sustainability-
Essential elements of a SBM definition are 1) an integrated view on sustainability; 
business models for sustainability, sustainable business models, sustainable 
further develop the UML Business Model in terms of sustainability. Particular 
Circular economy, Business model, Product-as-a-service, PSS, Finance. 
Over the past few years, the concept of circular economy (CE) has gained 
Financial: Measuring financial benefits of circular economy; Financial profitability 
Attitudinal: Perception of sustainability; Risk aversion 
sustainability profile with high circular ambitions. A 
circular business models, or only postpone it, until the challenges are solved. The 
to provide an important piece of the solution puzzle. Circular business models in 
Circle Economy (2016).  Empower Financial Decision Making in a Circular Economy. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF) (2012). Towards the Circular Economy Vol. 1: 
Global Circular Economy Business Model: Opportunities and Challenges. 
ING (2015). Rethinking finance in a circular economy – financial implications of 
Ritzén, S. and Sandström, G. Ö. (2017). Barriers to the Circular Economy - 
Sustainability: A Conceptual Model Found Inside the Black Box of 
Tukker, A. (2015). Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy - 
TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY 
towards Sustainability 
doing business is based on solving environmental and social sustainability 
entrepreneurship as a transformative force towards sustainability? How deep 
sustainability: The role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability”, International Journal of Innovation and Sustainable 
and Sustainability. Edmonton, Canada: AU Press 
innovation for sustainability. By putting environmental purpose at their core, they 
By doing so, they build novel business models for sustainability, delivering broad 
order to maintain financial sustainability and ensure their continued existence, 
towards environmental sustainability. 
sustainable business models, social enterprise, institutional logics, sustainability 
making. The need for sustainability-oriented innovation is widely acknowledged, 
Challenge’ and ‘Swiss Student Sustainability Challenge’ which will allow us to 
the FHNW’s initiatives can support young ventures to make sustainability-oriented 
outcome in terms of its impacts on sustainability. Holt and Littlewood (2015) in 
evaluate the young venture’s impact on sustainability as well as to use this for 
Sustainable Entrepreneurship, Sustainability-oriented Innovation, Systemic 
Adams, R., Jeanrenaud, S., Bessant, J., Denyer, D. & Overy, P. (2016) Sustainability‐
Factors Facilitating Responsible Managerial Practices. Sustainability. 10 (2), 
Sustainable Entrepreneurship Research Field. Sustainability. 10 (6), 2005, 1-
Sustainability Innovation: Categories and Interactions. Business Strategy and 
for the sustainability of social entrepreneurship for the society benefits and the 
institutional support, acceptance from the public, sustainability of the social 
options required for sustainability of social enterprise in Nigeria.   
evaluation of the social impact, the business model, and the sustainability of the 
important to the sustainability of social enterprises. According to Mohampeloa 
(2017), core sustainability drivers focus on ensuring that there is a sense of agency, 
promoting broader societal values like economic democracy or sustainability 
Management for Global Sustainability. [Online] 2, 7–30. Available from: 
Sustainability, 49(0), 1–28. 
sustainability challenges into competitive advantage: Multiple case studies 
• What are the sustainability implications of social entrepreneurial 
order to answer the second question a more sustainability-based assessment is 
Furthermore, the study discusses the achievement of sustainability goals and the 
sustainability: The role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability. International 
difficulties to manage and achieve financial sustainability; 
Marketing Dynamism & Sustainability: Things Change, Things Stay the 
A CIRCULAR ECONOMY  
Track IV: Circular Communication in a Circular Economy, 
Sustainability Transition Emerging 
This qualitative study explained how communication influences sustainability 
process of sustainability transition in emerging markets/countries, as well as the 
Partnership can take an essential role in the sustainability transition for developing 
sustainability, while the Global Partnership can build the bridge for sustainability 
Sustainability transition needs to be perceived correctly by society as a 
of how communication influence sustainability transition perception of local 
sustainability priority partnership. Our finding will fill the literature gap as well as 
explain the practical challenge on sustainability transition mechanism in a 
Communication, Global partnership, New Business Model, Sustainability 
Sustainability transition becomes an interesting issue to discuss considering its 
with respect to the world’s sustainability. However, some concerns are still 
Global Partnership NBM can take an essential role in the sustainability transition 
for developing countries. This model allows sustainability knowledge transfer from 
country’s sustainability transition (Loorbach and Wijsman, 2013). Furthermore, 
sustainability aspect (Jonker, 2012). The existence of a global partnership can 
Indonesia sustainability transition. As transition research at the micro level is still 
Sustainability transition needs to be perceived correctly by society as a 
formulated as follow, how does the way of communication influence sustainability 
sustainability issues (Dutch – Indonesia Multiannual Policy Framework, 2017). The 
case is selected based on this sustainability priority partnership and the access to 
Figure 1. Framework of how communication influences sustainability transition 
emerging country include sustainability practice, resource, and expert 
recommendation. Sustainability practice in the Netherlands becomes the 
sustainability planning and regulation. 
to jump and adopt the latest sustainability technology from the developed country 
sustainability solution suggested because they can still survive in lacking condition. 
country sustainability transition. The government can utilize its authority to decide 
local government should be aware about their community sustainability issue and 
to ensure the beneficial policy for society. Eventually, new sustainability regulation 
Local actor leader will comprehend sustainability transition better than other 
sustainability issue but also willing to engage and maintain the continuity of the 
sustainability transition (what to change). 
communication forum will work for the sustainability transition if the members of 
communication has role to inform the sustainability news and updates, to learn 
attract others attention, acknowledge her sustainability activities, and expect 
inform the sustainability real case through the piloting documentation and success 
In this case, the sustainability transition can be categorized as a riskier activity 
communication channel in emerging society’s sustainability transition 
sustainability. However, some concerns are still addressed to developing 
countries’ sustainability. NBM Global partnership NBM can facilitate sustainability 
sustainability transition perception of local people.  
contexts. This research finding is expected to address the dearth of sustainability 
Dutch – Indonesia sustainability priority: Water management (SDGs: clean water 
for businessin sustainability transitions. Journal of Cleaner Production 
Markard, Raven, Truffer. (2012). Sustainability transitions: An emerging field of 
Circular Economy in the Urban Context 
Circular Economy Rhein-Main 
1Circular Berlin; 2TU Berlin; 3Circular Economy Rhein-Main 
The circular economy (CE) has been discussed as an approach to improve product 
components with the capacity to change the rules of the game. Circular economy 
the keys to close the gap between the circular economy and the current economy.  
Circular Berlin and Circular Economy Rhein-Main.  
Circular Economy Rhein-Main is a community-driven initiative with the goal to 
individuals and businesses interested or working on a circular economy through 
jointly organized with Circular Economy Club, during the global Circular Economy 
projects for further implementation, which is the key for the circular economy 
Circular Economy implementation on the city level.  
Circular Economy Rhein-Main 
Starting from 2016 Circular Economy Rhein-Main was driven by its volunteer co-
2018 Christina and Svenja are the representatives for the Circular Economy Club 
Frankfurt chapter and activities of Circular Economy Rhein-Main are merged and 
communicated via the Circular Economy Club network as well. 
In 2018 Circular Economy Rhein-Main organized mapping event that was joined 
the Circular Economy Club website. The circular economy scene Frankfurt and 
discussed, presented or collaborated on. Circular Economy Rhein Main provides 
initiatives to further advance and create more visibility for a circular economy in 
Within the period of 2 years, Circular Economy Rhein-Main has created a 
for circular economy implementation through direct work with the local circular 
communication Platform and use of other Circular Economy aggregating 
people in the area of the circular economy.  
Circular City, Community Development, Communication for Circular Economy, 
Web Page: Padalkina D.M. (2018) Circular Economy: Redesigning economy 
Web Page: Circular Economy Rhein-Main https://www.meetup.com/de-
3Helsinki Institute of Sustainability Science, University of Helsinki, 
In the context of circular economy, innovative business models are needed to 
is to understand the value of data in circular business models.  
Circular economy aims at solving environmental sustainability challenges by 
of circular economy new innovative business models are needed to slow, close, 
sustainability of production and consumption. At the same time, increasing 
data-driven circular business models, such as performance models and digital 
on the intersection of data and circular business models is scarce (Bressanelli et 
Circular business models 
In circular business models, value is created through slowing, closing, or narrowing 
(Bocken et al., 2016). In the context of circular economy, this third approach is 
of circular business models, the value includes not only customer and economic 
However, it has been argued that circular business models might not always be 
captured. As well, there is a growing body of research on circular business models 
literature defines data as an enabler of circular economy and business models (e.g. 
In order to understand the role and value of data for circular business models, 
identified as relevant to understand the value of data in circular business models. 
circular business models and strategies identified. The type and sources of data, 
of data and circular business models is fragmented. Data is seen as a driver or 
enabler of circular economy (e.g. De Mattos and de Albuquerque 2018, Tura et al. 
In circular business models, data can be used for product design, product life time 
to assess the environmental performance of circular business models and (e.g. 
circular economy context. Existing circular business models have a varying degree 
2018, Rajala et al. 2018). In circular economy driven collaboration, collecting and 
In the context of circular business models, data seems to have the potential to act 
towards circular economy objectives through product design, product life time 
business models, circular economy, data-driven, value of data, sustainability 
business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and 
usage-focused business models enable circular economy through digital 
technologies. Sustainability. 10(3). 
Collaborative Circular Oriented Innovation? Sustainability. 11(3), 635.  
D’Amato, D., Veijonaho, S. & Toppinen, A. 2018. Towards sustainability? Forest-
and supply chains for the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
circular economy business model: Opportunities and challenges. California 
circular economy, value creation, and sustainable business models: Where 
are we now and where should research move in the future? Sustainability. 
Lewandowski, M. (2016) Designing the business models for circular economy-
towards the conceptual framework. Sustainability. 8(1), 1-28. 
Lieder, M., Asif, F. & Rashid, A. (2017) Towards circular economy implementation: 
the circular economy: A proposed research agenda and original roadmap for 
(2018) Do circular economy business models capture intended 
circular economy and sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of 
Rajput, S & Singh, S. (2019) Connecting circular economy and industry 4.0. 
Tseng, M., Tan, R., Chiu, A., Chien, C. & Kuo, T. (2018) Circular economy meets 
exploitation and growth of business opportunities leading to sustainability-
oriented innovations, value creation and sustainability transformation of markets 
for sustainability-oriented business model development”, International 
Sustainability: A Delicate Balancing Act for Entrepreneurs Made More 
entrepreneurship for sustainability. Creating solutions in light of the UN 
sustainability. A co-evolutionary analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, 
sustainability innovation. Categories and interactions”, Business Strategy 
sustainability. This study proposes an eight-phase performance measurement 
literature on business model innovation for sustainability, performance 
business model innovation, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), sustainability, 
In a future circular economy, new business models are needed that are capable of 
practices and the desired sustainability outcomes. This operationalisation phase 
designing circular business models, a broad range of methods and tools has been 
circular economy; innovation; circular business model; experimentation; 
Since the rise of circular economy as a major policy topic in Europe, interest in the 
potential of circular business models has increased strongly among companies and 
economy (e.g. EEA, 2017; Kirchherr et al., 2018), circular business models are not 
surprise, because 1) companies wanting to implement circular business models, 
circularity/sustainability ambition level, or vice versa (EC, 2018).   
years, many tools and frameworks to characterize circular business models have 
knowledge and values about circular economy and sustainability in such heuristics 
could greatly spur business innovation in support of a circular economy. The 
convert a long-term vision on sustainability into actionable steps. This could 
and sustainability into a lean start-up based coaching scheme.  
sustainability into a lean start-up based coaching scheme. The process was tested 
in four different case studies. The approach, co-created between sustainability 
helped them to understand that experimenting with circular business models is a 
circularity/sustainability, a network of knowledge/solution providers, and peer-to-
sustainability. For the second, there is a clear need for solutions (digital and off-
contributes to realization of a circular economy. 
Circular business models, circular strategies, lean start-up, business innovation 
and business model strategies for a circular economy. J. Ind. Prod. Eng. 33, 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. J. Clean. Prod. 65, 
I.N., 2018. Consumption in the Circular Economy: A Literature Review. 
Sustainability 10, 2758. https://doi.org/10.3390/su10082758 
EEA, 2017. Circular By Design - Products in the Circular Economy (EEA Report No. 
EEA, 2016. Circular economy in Europe — Developing the knowledge base (EEA 
Truijens, A., Hekkert, M., 2018. Barriers to the Circular Economy: Evidence 
Lewandowski, M., 2016. Designing the Business Models for Circular Economy—
Sustainability 
Nußholz, J.L.K., 2017. Circular Business Models: Defining a Concept and Framing 
Sustainability 
Planing, P., 2015. Business Model Innovation in a Circular Economy Reasons for 
Non-Acceptance of Circular Business Models. Open J. Bus. Model Innov. 
Reike, D., Vermeulen, W.J.V., Witjes, S., 2018. The circular economy: New or 
of the Circular Economy through a Focus on History and Resource Value 
Tukker, A., 2015. Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy – 
Investigation of Sustainability Aspects 
Sustainability, 
Cocklin (2008), sustainability is mostly attributed to single elements of the BM, 
of sustainability (economic, environmental, and social) to operate sustainably. 
Nevertheless, entrepreneurs who strive for sustainability face a key challenge 
The research on sustainability aspects in early phases of BM design in start-ups is 
development of sustainability in elements of the entrepreneurs’ BMs. 
Furthermore, drivers that led to aspects of sustainability in the BMs of start-up 
(a) What BM elements incorporate aspects of sustainability during the early 
(b) What drives the development of sustainability aspects in BMs during the early 
ecological sustainability. Based on the findings, we selected three teams that 
2016). Furthermore, the general aspects of sustainability and their respective 
General aspects of sustainability in the BM: The start-up project Alphawood 
resource but did not explicitly emphasize sustainability aspects in its BM (A0). 
decided to include environmental sustainability in his value proposition by 
resources was also identified as an essential element influencing its sustainability 
sustainability was the economic sustainability of the venture (A1, A2).  
effects of sustainability on pricing. He argued that sustainability led to higher costs 
Drivers for sustainability in the BM: Easy access to waste materials and the 
sustainability of the product was seen more as a means to support the main value 
indicated that the inclusion of sustainability aspects in the BM has been primarily 
General aspects of sustainability in the BM: The start-up Clean Connect 
aspects of ecological as well as social sustainability (B1, B2).  
sees sustainability only as an addition to its main value proposition (B2).  
to reasons other than sustainability which led to the inclusion of ecological aspects 
sustainability is more of a side effect of the main value proposition (B1, B2). 
Drivers for sustainability in the BM: Clean Connect indicated that it considered 
incontinent people. (B0). A driver for ecological sustainability in the BM was the 
General aspects of sustainability in the BM: The start-up Mady Pure provides 
sustainability. 
(C0). Mady Pure considered the environmental sustainability of the developed 
environmentally aware customer (C1). In that regard, environmental sustainability 
Sustainability in other areas of the BM was initially not a major concern (C1). 
dropped (C2) at this later stage of BM-development. Sustainability aspects were 
demonstrating sustainability through transparency drew attention to the BM 
waste, enhancing the BMs overall sustainability (C1, C2). Furthermore, Mady Pure 
environmental sustainability played only a secondary role. Mady Pure further 
operations (C2). The decision to add sustainability aspects, such as sustainable 
Value Capture: The communication of sustainability was mentioned to justify 
Drivers for sustainability in the BM: Mady Pure’s BM was enabled by changes 
of sustainability aspects in Mady Pure’s BM (C1). It was interesting to note that 
addressing the needs of particular customers (C2). Therefore, sustainability is 
for the inclusion of sustainability in the BM was the need to demonstrate 
sustainability and justify the higher sale price of Mady Pure’s product and 
sustainability. In addition, this work allowed us to identify drivers for the inclusion 
of sustainability aspects in early developmental phases of start-ups’ BMs. Based 
What BM elements incorporate sustainability aspects in the early phases of 
In the investigated BMs, ecological sustainability was a by-product of the overall 
value proposition. Ecological sustainability was addressed by using more 
Alphawood and Mady Pure. In the case of Clean Connect, ecological sustainability 
holistically include sustainability in their BM, a finding that is consistent with the 
What drives the development of sustainability aspects in BMs in the early phases 
entrepreneurial teams, encouraging them to include sustainability aspects in their 
BMs. In all three cases, the inclusion of aspects of ecological or social sustainability 
sustainability aspects was seen as a way they could differentiate themselves from 
a BMs sustainability and as a means to justify higher sale prices (A0, A2, C2), which 
later contributed to the BMs overall sustainability (A2). Other factors that were 
sustainable start-ups and the subsequent development of sustainability aspects of 
Stock, Marten (2017): Sustainability-Oriented Business Model Assessment—
Analytics, Innovation, and Excellence-Driven Enterprise Sustainability, Bd. 
Models for Sustainability. In: Organization & Environment 29 (1), pp. 3–10. 
sustainability innovation: categories and interactions. In: Bus. Strat. Env. 20 
Schick, Hildegard; Marxen, Sandra; Freimann, Jrgen (2002): Sustainability Issues 
circular economy business model 
rates and generation of emissions and waste. Moving towards a Circular Economy 
economy business models have in store. Circular economy targeted business 
public about circular economy principles and case studies (Coursera, 2019; Ellen 
Viertelhausen, 2017). Also in the field of Circular Economy, game-based learning 
resource challenges and sustainability issues that trigger the need for a circular 
tool that addresses the business perspective of circular economy in a company 
raise discussion about circular economy opportunities and challenges. 
circular economy strategies and business models were incorporated in the game 
circular economy related topics was assessed with pre- and post-workshop 
indicated their knowledge about circular economy concepts and business models 
circular economy, business model innovation, serious game, entrepreneurship, 
and business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial 
Coursera. (2019). Circular Economy – Sustainable materials management. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2018). A global snapshot of circular economy 
through business simulation games: An exploratory study of sustainability 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., Ulgiati, S. (2016). A review on circular economy: the 
Nußholz, J.L.K. (2017). Circular Business Models: Defining a Concept and Framing 
an Emerging Research Field. Sustainability. 9, 1810.  
for circular economy and sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of 
do is win’: Lessons learned from use of a serious game for Circular Economy 
development of a sustainability-oriented enterprise. This framework connects 
uncertainty about how sustainability-oriented entrepreneurs are handling 
sustainability dimensions is the defining, differentiating characteristic of both SE 
and sustainability-oriented entrepreneurship in order to produce a more 
sustainability-oriented entrepreneurship and sustainable business models using 
by an overarching goal, i.e. transformative impact on market sustainability (TIMS), 
sustainability impact, i.e. the product’s or service’s environmental and social 
performance, and indirect sustainability impact, i.e. the market reach determining 
sustainability logics’ elements throughout all of them; second, ensure they enable 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
sustainability: Case study in the energy sector. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
sustainability: a co-evolutionary analysis of sustainable entrepreneurship, 
for sustainability: A simulation experiment. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
Yip, A. W. H., & Bocken, N. M. P. (2018). Sustainable business model archetypes 
activism on business model innovation for sustainability. 
creating social value. Sustainable entrepreneurs address the sustainability of their 
Recent studies on entrepreneurs and sustainability reveal that sustainable 
contexts. To understand why entrepreneurs engage in sustainability-oriented 
sustainability could be rooted to a great extent in the close interlinkage and 
further track the case entrepreneur’s personal values concerning sustainability 
value creation and innovate business models for sustainability. Second, future 
innovation for sustainability. Third, it is important to further explore the micro-
sustainability innovation: categories and interactions. Business Strategy and 
entrepreneurship for sustainability. Creating solutions in light of the UN 
realization of sustainability innovations aimed at the mass market and providing 
useful scaffolds to support sustainability-oriented startups’ daily reality of choice-
taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model 
sustainability innovation: categories and interactions’, Business Strategy and 
Zott et al., 2011). Developing new business models for sustainability requires an 
enables firms to achieve long-term social and environmental sustainability (Boons 
sustainability-related challenges has pushed firms to the realization that they 
only address sustainability challenges but also help exploring new market 
for sustainability.  
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner 
De Lange, D. E. (2017). Start-up sustainability: An insurmountable cost or a life-
sustainability. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management, 15(4), 
of business ecosystems mean for strategy, innovation, and sustainability. 
(2015). Joining forces: Collaboration and leadership for sustainability. MIT 
sustainability ERSCP-EMU Conference, Delft, The Netherlands pp. 1-28 
Nidumolu, R., Prahalad, C. K., & Rangaswami, M. R. (2009). Why sustainability is 
sustainability: the role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability. Int. J. Innov. Sustain. Dev. 6 (2), 95e119. 
Stubbs, W., Cocklin, C., (2008). Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”. 
The transition to a circular economy requires products that are based on circular 
In the typology of sustainable business model archetypes of Bocken, Short, Rana, 
circular economy business model patterns, as identified by Geissdoerfer et al. 
principles for any sustainability oriented business model approach: sustainability-
criteria for sustainability-oriented business model development. 
Circular economy; business modelling; business model tools; sustainable 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
and business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial 
the circularity to the next level: a special issue on the circular economy. 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Tiemann, I. (2018). Sustainability-
Economy–A new sustainability paradigm?. Journal of cleaner production, 
models and supply chains for the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner 
models for shared value. Cape Town: Network for Business Sustainability 
Circular Economy Business Model Patterns. Journal of Industrial Ecology. 
three sustainability criteria and (iii) three commitment strategies for improving 
process in line with sustainability (ESG) criteria, thus gaining a deeper 
striving towards achieving strong sustainability (Neumayer, 2013). This requires 
“design principles” (e.g. the Natural Step’s sustainability principles) formulated 
sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 140, 1–9. 
Neumayer, E. (2003). Weak versus strong sustainability: exploring the limits of two 
considered themselves as both bioeconomy and circular economy firms. (For more 
on company views on the bioeconomy and circular economy, see Näyhä, 2019.)  
Even though the companies define themselves as bio-and circular economy actors 
as specialization and a high degree of upgrading. Environmental sustainability, 
of the roles of various organizations and industries in sustainability transitions (see 
sustainability transition (see also Näyhä, 2019). However, despite how these 
businesses were believed to produce sustainability benefits for society, there are 
could possibly have in sustainability transition and what type of stakeholder 
to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
new role for business in sustainability transitions, Journal of Cleaner 
perspectives on the bioeconomy, circular economy and sustainability. 
developing business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
Sustainability Transitions Research Network (STRN), 2017. Research agenda. 
Vergragt, P. J. and Quist, J. 2011. Backcasting for sustainability: Introduction to the 
technological and social innovation, co-creation with customers, sustainability and 
model innovation towards sustainability. It does this through examining the 
sustainability, Infrastructure Complexity, (2):4. 
journey towards sustainability. Shifting from a siloed and comfortable ‘Business as 
Enterprise (THRIVE) framework and develops THRIVE platform and Sustainability 
sustainability performance of enterprises alongside their strategy or business 
business strategy, business transformation, context-based sustainability, 
corporate sustainability performance, sustainability performance scorecard. 
models with strong sustainability (Neumayer 2010; Pelenc 2015) performance by 
start in making the transition to sustainability (Breuer & Lüdeke-Freund 2017; 
defining the framework and tools to evaluate corporate sustainability 
corporate sustainability performance of enterprises alongside their business 
models (Wirtz et al. 2016) across the three pillars of sustainability, being the 
sustainability performance of enterprises have amounted to little more than 
sustainability risks are assessed as business risks (WBCSD 2017a).   
(http://www.strive2thrive.earth); which together with THRIVE sustainability 
performance scorecard (SPS) tool, ranks the sustainability performance of 
quest towards sustainability through business model innovation (BMI) (Amit & 
compares favourably with the Sustainability Assessment of Farming and the 
structured way and used for assessing the sustainability of agro-ecosystems. 
The utility of the proposed THRIVE framework and Sustainability Performance 
Borucke et al. 2012). Thus the role of sustainability as a long-term corporate 
tool to assist enterprises address the sustainability challenge. It then turns to the 
integrated corporate sustainability reports (e.g., Global Reporting Initiative 
Sustainability Reports, Carbon Disclosure Project datasets) and corporate websites 
sustainability reports do not contain sufficient information needed for judging 
corporate sustainability performance or how quickly they are approaching 
sustainability (Barter 2015; Isaksson et al. 2009; McElroy 2017), the use of these 
business model (BM) and corporate sustainability performance (impact) whilst 
2016; Kiron et al. 2013) are a precursor to business models for sustainability 
scientifically comparing corporate sustainability performances. The extended 
in accounting for sustainability issues (Persson et al. 2018), and the wicked nature 
This study takes a strong sustainability (Bjørn & Røpke 2018; Landrum 2017; 
Enterprise (THRIVE) framework and associated Sustainability Performance 
showcasing a quantitative sustainability performance score alongside categorical 
the corporate sustainability performance of enterprises at the business model 
Seafood Stewardship Index (WBA 2018). Their sustainability ranked ‘league’ tables 
studies that report on corporate sustainability performance (Morioka et al. 2016), 
rank the sustainability performance of enterprises, there is a lack of 
as coffee, palm oil, milk, and bananas. And finally, in some cases, sustainability 
Sustainability 
NOT a strongly sustainable enterprise.  Context-based Sustainability Performance Scorecard (SPS) values are 
Table 2. Sustainability Performance Scorecard (SPS). Sample of an instantiation. 
WBCSD 2017a) nor attempting to systematically measure the actual sustainability 
sustainability: the economic, social and environmental (Elkington 1997). This is 
≤1   for strong sustainability,  and 
Figure 1. Formula for the calculation of the sustainability performance score as detailed in this study. 
which fails to measure the actual sustainability performance of an organization 
within context (Huang et al. 2015) - much less from a strong sustainability 
multi-capital scorecard (MCS) (McElroy & Thomas 2015) and sustainability 
Topics), Bailey and Eccles (2018) argue for using the sustainability factors as 
identified by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) mapped to the 
trends and effectiveness of business models for sustainability; governments to 
transformation for sustainability benefits from the more sophisticated THRIVE SPS 
enterprise’s sustainability performance, truly closing the loop on sustainability and 
the circular economy.  
Adams, R, Jeanrenaud, S, Bessant, J & Overy, P (2015), 'Sustainability-oriented 
Sustainability from Corporate Responsibility', Academy of Management 
Initiative, and Corporate Sustainability Reporting', Social and Environmental 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes', Journal of 
systematic leadership towards sustainability', Journal of Cleaner Production, 
Costanza, R & Patten, BC (1995), 'Defining and predicting sustainability', 
Eccles, RG (2012), 'The Need for Sector-Specific Materiality and Sustainability 
it all add up?: assessing the sustainability of business and CSR. 
CY (2017), 'Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a Unified 
reporting sustainability in context', in Global Cleaner Production & 
Figge, F & Hahn, T (2005), 'The Cost of Sustainability Capital and the Creation of 
Economy – A new sustainability paradigm?', Journal of Cleaner Production, 
<https://blogs.thomsonreuters.com/sustainability/2018/06/07/executive-
Huang, L, Wu, J & Yan, L (2015), 'Defining and measuring urban sustainability: a 
Ioannou, I & Serafeim, G (2019), Corporate Sustainability & Strategy, Harvard 
tell us about corporate sustainability?', The TQM Journal, vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 
bottom line - How companies that see sustainability as both a necessity and 
'Relational leadership for strategic sustainability: practices and capabilities 
Landrum, NE (2017), 'Stages of Corporate Sustainability: Integrating the Strong 
Sustainability Worldview', Organization & Environment, vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 
Corporate Performance: A Study Based on the Dow Jones Sustainability 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation', Sustainable Production 
Industry-Based Sustainability Reporting on Key Issues, The Hauser Center for 
McElroy, M (2013), Corporate Sustainability Management A Context-Based 
Sustainability 
k_mcelroy/it_possible_gri_has_never_really_been_about_sustainability_r> 
McElroy, MW & Thomas, MP (2015), 'The MultiCapital Scorecard', Sustainability 
McElroy, MW, Jorna, RJ & van Engelen, J (2008), 'Sustainability quotients and the 
Melkonyan, A, Gottschalk, D & V.P, VK (2017), 'Sustainability assessments and 
Innovation: Exploring Evidences in Sustainability Reporting', Procedia CIRP, 
Neumayer, E (2010), 'Weak Versus Strong Sustainability: Exploring the Limits of 
Pansera, DM & Randles, PS (2013), Innovation for sustainability (I4S): Final Case 
Pelenc, J (2015), Weak Sustainability versus Strong Sustainability. 
Boundaries from a Strategic Sustainability Perspective: How Does Humanity 
Schaltegger, S, Freund, FL & Hansen, EG (2012), 'Business cases for sustainability: 
the role of business model innovation for corporate sustainability', 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues', Organization 
Sustainability: A Co-Evolutionary Analysis of Sustainable Entrepreneurship, 
sustainability: The case for multi-layered collaboration across disciplines and 
sustainable society index', Environment, Development and Sustainability, 
sustainability reporting? Deriving propositions for research and practice 
from over 9,500 corporate sustainability reports published between 1999 
Disclosure in Sustainability Reporting, UN. 
'SAFE—A hierarchical framework for assessing the sustainability of 
WBCSD (2017b), CEO Guide to the Circular Economy - The future of business is 
Webster, K (2015), The Circular Economy: A wealth of flows, Ellen MacArthur 
review of sustainability management research', Journal of Cleaner 
Mapping IP Strategies in Circular Economy Business 
Circular Economy 
Sustainability transitions require novel technologies and business models. They 
the context of sustainability and in particular circular economy, this paper 
business models in the circular economy. We found that the majority of business 
Sustainability transitions rely on cooperation between organizations in the 
diffusion processes, thereby encouraging sustainability transitions on a global 
Given their accelerating and blocking effects, in the context of sustainability and 
in particular circular economy, the range of IP strategies remains to be 
and remanufacturing are an important concept in the circular economy. Many of 
assets. We also observe increasing patent filings protecting circular economy 
strategies for circular economy activities is of eminent importance. 
Currently, sustainability science and the practice community tend to advocate 
Business Models in the Circular Economy 
As the circular economy approach supports several Sustainable Development 
& production) it is seen as a suitable approach for achieving sustainability 
implementing circular economy principles (Bocken et al., 2016, 2017; Geisdoerfer 
From linear to circular business models: linear business models, dominant in our 
product is disposed of after a limited number of uses. In a circular economy, the 
diverse industries and organizations to address circular economy principles. Table 
Table 1. Classification of sustainable business models in the circular economy (based on Bocken 
IP strategies for Business Models in the Circular Economy 
We identified 30 cases across various industries based on circular economy and 
sustainability awards and prizes, research studies, and sustainability indexes that 
investigation when their environmental sustainability contribution appeared 
company information, IPR databases and sustainability reports.  
Circular economy businesses employ different IP strategies. While only very few 
Table 2. Circular Economy SBM and IP Strategies 
that also businesses in the circular economy pursue mostly more closed IP 
strategies in adopting new business models that contribute to circular economy.  
Joint Research Programme on Transformations to Sustainability, which is co-
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner 
business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial & 
circularity to the next Level: a special issue on the circular economy. Journal 
Collaborative Circular Oriented Innovation? Sustainability, 11(3), 635. 
Chambers, D., Glasgow, R. & K. Stange (2013). The dynamic sustainability 
Sustainability: Theory, Evidence & Policy. Cheltenham, Edward Elgar 
Geels, F. (2010). Ontologies, socio-technical transitions (to sustainability), and the 
Geels, F.W. (2011). The multi-level perspective on sustainability transitions. 
Economy: A new sustainability paradigm? Journal of Cleaner Production, 
Kassoy A. (2010 June 18). No sustainability without transparency! The CSR Blog, 
?toURL=https:/www.forbes.com/sites/csr/2010/06/18/no-sustainability-
Models for Shared Value–How Sustainability-oriented Business Models 
for Business Sustainability South Africa. 
Enabling Sustainability Transitions. Centre for Technology Management 
analyses of costs, market value and eco-costs in circular business models: 
Wiens K. (2014 June 4). Intellectual property is putting circular economy in 
sustainability 
Across contexts, such advances will make the scale of the sustainability problem 
language for sustainability efforts across markets, a valuable public good (UN 
impacts on verification processes for sustainability projects. Such innovations will 
usage) thus “providing improved food traceability and sustainability data to 
markets for sustainability and the preservation and improvement of Earth’s 
New Generation of Sustainability Strategies. California Management 
Corporate Sustainability and Politics. California Management Review: 
FOR SUSTAINABILITY 
Track VII: New Business Models for Sustainability Transition 
The session 'New business models for sustainability transition' is a peculiar one. 
combination of sustainability, inclusivity, or circularity. In recent years a growing 
transitions that foster sustainability. What role can they play and what does such 
on value-chains do not stimulate sustainability, or at least, far too little. However, 
promote business models for sustainability. 
creating business models for sustainability when a larger number of more diverse 
Sustainability, 
Wells, P. & Nieuwenhuis, P. (2017) Operationalising deep structural sustainability 
Several attempts to link business model innovation to sustainability have been 
sustainability could be realised need development (Bolton and Hannon, 2016; 
sustainability transitions, and it is possible that relevant innovations could occur 
Bolton, R. and Hannon, M. (2016) Governing sustainability transitions through 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues, Organization 
Wells, P.E. (2013) Business models for sustainability, Cheltenham: Edward Elgar 
models for sustainability and socio-technical systems to frame our study 
consequences. To improve the governance of transition towards sustainability, we 
governance of sustainability transitions.   
Societal concerns over sustainability related issues increasingly manifest in 
models. While sustainability is the agenda of most organizations, tools and 
sustainability into business models has been proposed (Stubbs and Cocklin, 2008), 
sustainability, but do not consider the industry wide impact. So far, most studies 
required to accelerate sustainability transitions.  
sustainability transitions, System dynamics offers distinct benefits in relation to 
Business model canvas, the workshops identified sustainability dimensions 
communicates of stakeholders. Thereby, sustainability dimensions beyond the 
challenge to most sustainability inactivates, namely the clashing interest between 
a business model perspective on the realm of sustainability transitions 
Abdelkafi, N. and Täuscher, K. 2016. Business Models for Sustainability From a 
Chappin, E. 2018. Modelling sustainability transitions: An assessment of 
Sustainability: A Co-Evolutionary Analysis of Sustainable Entrepreneurship, 
logics to deliver sustainability transitions. Based on the analysis of eight business 
in which these models operate to deliver sustainability transition. 
for Sustainability Solution Ecosystems  
This paper explores the specific challenges of business models for 'sustainability 
solution ecosystems' that accelerate sustainability transitions. We coined the term 
'sustainability solution ecosystem' to describe innovation ecosystems that provide 
a sustainability solution, which is often based on a combination of sustainability 
combination of 'solution ecosystem' and 'sustainability innovation ecosystem'.  
problems” (Eggers & Macmillan, 2013, p. 198). A sustainability solution aims at 
solving a sustainability problem, such as climate change, environmental 
sustainability problems are 'wicked problems' they usually cannot be solved by 
sustainability innovations and thereby accelerate sustainability transitions. 
sustainability technology, but moreover to change legislation and achieve the 
healthy innovation ecosystem helps a sustainability solution to succeed in the 
market, and ultimately contributes to a sustainability transition.  
ecosystem, in which their sustainability solution can prosper. To build this 
Sustainability solution ecosystems face several specific challenges with regard to 
actors that collaborates closely to deliver a sustainability solution, often a product-
models for sustainability solution ecosystems. In the following, we will describe 
network or supply chain provides a product or service, in sustainability solution 
This sustainability solution provides several forms of value to different stakeholder 
models for sustainability solution ecosystems need to comprise different forms of 
RQ1: How do business models for sustainability solution ecosystems comprise 
ecosystem for their sustainability solution, and to achieve the systemic changes 
business model of the sustainability solution ecosystem. In emerging solution 
that business models for sustainability solution ecosystems should not only 
sustainability solution ecosystems in the Netherlands. For each of the cases, we 
also be relevant for sustainability solution ecosystems. However, we expect to find 
sustainability solution ecosystems. It contributes to business model literature in 
perspective of systemic change for sustainability transitions. 
sustainability solution ecosystems; innovation ecosystems; sustainability 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
for Sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 43(June), 1–36.  
Kemp, R., & Loorbach, D. (2003). Governance for Sustainability Through Transition 
collective system building to commercialize sustainability innovations. 
systemic and sustainability innovations. International Journal of Technology 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues. Organization 
Stubbs, W. and Cocklin, C. (2008) ‘Conceptualizing a “sustainability business 
Waddock, S. (2013). The Wicked Problems of Global Sustainability Need Wicked 
Management for Global Sustainability, 1(1), 91–111.  
2015), including innovation for sustainability (Bocken et al., 2014b; Boons & 
Lüdeke-Freund, 2013). Innovation for sustainability in terms of creating 
sustainable business models seems central for sustainability transition as 
dimensions of sustainable business models and their role for sustainability 
those sustainability-journals that have had hosted most of the debate on 
As mentioned, compared to many other approaches to sustainability in business, 
sustainability transition of society. 
practice review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal 
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a “Sustainability Business 
Tukker, A. (2015). Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy - 
infrastructure system, sustainability transition, municipalities 
for sustainability transitions of UWM are strong path dependencies and well-
sustainable development of UWM by fostering a sustainability transition in various 
Extending business models for sustainability. Infrastructure Complexity 2(1): 
Lieberherr E and Truffer B (2015) The impact of privatization on sustainability 
Environmental Sustainability 5(3-4): 341–351. 
and sustainability transitions in infrastructure sectors. Environmental Policy 
blend sustainability and circular economy concepts. Adopting Maclurcan’s (2018) 
seeking sustainability transformation and better workplaces. 
developing narratives around locality and environmental sustainability. This 
sustainability transitions (Bidmon & Knab, 2018; Bolton & Hannon, 2016; Sarasini 
Bolton, R., & Hannon, M. (2016). Governing sustainability transitions through 
Gauthier, C., & Gilomen, B. (2016). Business models for sustainability: energy 
Sustainability: A Co-Evolutionary Analysis of Sustainable Entrepreneurship, 
partners and the consumer. From a sustainability perspective, the environment, 
together with its popularity, in fact even pose a risk to sustainability. 
technological innovations, they represent a major step towards sustainability. 
of the relations between food and sustainability, among specific consumers 
discourse concerns the circular economy. While vague, the interviewees see food 
into account some sustainability aspects, but does not require new entrants. The 
of Dutch transitions to sustainability. Journal of Environmental Policy & 
sustainability: origins, present research, and future avenues. Organization & 
systems dedicated to sustainability 
to a transformation to sustainability. In order to account for the systemic nature 
of global sustainability challenges, the author adopts a business model perspective 
performance. Departing from innovation systems theory, sustainability 
transitions, and corporate sustainability, a systematic literature review discloses 
of business model innovation aiming at introducing a dedication to sustainability 
business models for sustainability by taking a slightly different stance: Business 
sustainability in innovation processes across the system, for in-stance by 
Cross-Sector Business Models for Sustainability 
In the light of contemporary phenomena such as the circular economy, smart 
up Collaborative Cross-Sector Business Models for Sustainability (CCSBMfS) has 
case’ for themselves, all the actors recognized sustainability as a ‘bigger 
Relational Leadership for Strategic Sustainability: Practices and Capabilities 
Cross-Sector Business Models for Sustainability, Call for Papers for a Special 
systemic and sustainability innovations. International Journal of Technology 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues. Organization 
explain their points of view on research on new business models for sustainability. 
It is increasingly recognized that addressing sustainability challenges must go 
range of sustainability implications (Curtis & Lehner, 2019).  
While these efforts have the potential to generate positive sustainability impacts, 
reach are themselves motivated by sustainability concerns. Hence, a number of 
the strategies firms employ to influence consumers include sustainability-related 
Rather than trying to influence consumers to more highly value sustainability, if 
matter whether consumers engage in it out of sustainability concerns or for other 
with consumers and deliver the desired sustainability results. This research 
Sustainability, 
Curtis, S. K., & Lehner, M. (2019). Defining the Sharing Economy for Sustainability. 
Sustainability, 11(3), 567. https://doi.org/10.3390/su11030567 
Barlow, C. Y. (2017). Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards 
Forrest, A., Hilton, M., Ballinger, A., & Whittaker, D. (2017). Circular Economy 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable Production 
Tukker, A. (2015). Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy – 
Sustainability, 
movement started to gain ground, which is based on values like sustainability, 
acknowledge that a global shift to circular business models would most likely not 
to contribute to the empirical gap in the literature on circular business models in 
for a circular economy will be taken into the scope in this research: it is about the 
emergent materials. Concurrently, sustainability (particularly in relation to the 
test the strategies of circular economy thinking (Bocken et al., 2016). In this 
Valkokaro (2016), who scrutinized circular business models based on 
contribute to, first, the academic literature on circular business models focused 
and future circular business models, particularly targeted at new material 
innovation of the Dutch textile industry, taking circular business models as the 
contribute to the development of new business models for sustainability. 
Keywords: circular business models, slow fashion, maker movement, new 
closing loops and the circular economy. In: Kopnina, H., Blewitt, J. (Eds.), 
Sustainability: Key Issues. Routledge, London, United Kingdom 
City of Rotterdam, Making sustainability a way of life for Rotterdam, Rotterdam 
programme on sustainability and climate change 2015-2018, City of 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2012). Towards the Circular Economy: Economic and 
Strähle, J., & Müller, V. (2016). Key Aspects of Sustainability in Fashion Retail. 
design thinking, sustainability,  and transition (Foss and Saebi, 2015, 2017; Sarasini 
Context: Connotation, Types, and Measuring’, Sustainability, 10(11), p. 
Sustainability 
model for entrepreneurs. The values of sustainability and integrity upon which 
as sustainability.  
pursues values of sustainability and social responsibility. Since a company’s 
“Sustainability: Seek long term, sustainable solutions.”  
instance, companies that pursue values of sustainability and care for the 
core values, and the “Sustainability” value in particular. One level on which the 
sustainability is the selection of candidates. In this regard Bainger (2018: p.4) 
are identified as neglecting the topic of sustainability: 
and sustainability” can turn to be a “very efficient and targeted way to reach 
First, the core value of “Sustainability” is represented in the company’s use of 
are being screened for their congruency with the “Sustainability” value while 
develops a corporate culture of sustainability. Based on a matched sample of 180 
sustainability. Moreover, the study suggests that companies adopting a corporate 
culture of sustainability “significantly outperform their counterparts over the long-
of sustainability and environmental protection (e.g. through engagement in the 
business models that are simultaneously financially viable and sustainability-
is to sensitize users about the topics of sustainability and environmental 
environmentalism and sustainability, it has reached market success and creates 
of sustainability on corporate behavior and performance (No. W17950). 
defensive sustainability strategy. As a consequence, potential benefits are missed. 
sustainability in business models. It is still a challenge to implement the newly 
and implement sustainability in technology-dominant innovation projects?  
application? How to ensure sustainability of the newly developed process chain? 
systemic and sustainability innovations. International Journal of Technology 
sustainability: the role of business model innovation for corporate 
sustainability. Int. J. Innovation and Sustainable Development. 6 (2), 95-119.  
Industrial Symbiosis, Business Model, Guide, Sustainability, Decision-making  
influence its global sustainability and viability.  
67 Tools designed by the Centre for Industrial Sustainability (University of Cambridge) 
sustainability awareness among process industries by showing viable projects than 
of Territorial Capital’, in Conference of Colloquium on Sustainability, 
in Pathways to Environmental Sustainability: Methodologies and 
Van Eetvelde, G. et al. (2007) ‘Sustainability scanning of eco-industrial parks’, in 
for Sustainability”’, in Knowledge collaboration & learning for sustainable 
Sustainability, 11(131), p. 15. 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues’, Organization 
towards sustainability innovation strategies that create a new conception of 
business models for sustainability in the EV B2U market. Additionally, although 
circular economy. In turn, this creates shared sustainable value for multiple 
creations which in turn drive forward business performance and sustainability at 
sustainable business models, sustainable business model archetypes, sustainable 
towards functional sustainability.  
sustainability in organisations (Bocken et al., 2015). SBMs use a firm-level and 
Thus, SBMs will go beyond focusing on one sustainability innovation such as the 
circular economy, which has been found to usually prioritise economic and 
environmental sustainability where the social dimensions typically are absent 
more holistic view of how to include the three metrics of sustainability into the 
fields of SBMs such as circular business models or the circular economy. Data were 
“business models for sustainability”. 
business sustainability-related activities into an suitable set of SBM archetypes 
stakeholder sustainability business-related activities are identified and discussed. 
theoretical to practical industrial sustainability as part of novel SBM approaches. 
at all three sustainability parameters (environmental, social and economic). For 
prices and overall sustainability performance. On the other hand, we found that 
as well as the SBM archetypes as major sustainability innovations towards the 
case for sustainability. We believe that this is an interdisciplinary effort that will 
experimentation for sustainability. In: Setchi, R., Howlett, R.J., Liu, Y. & 
review to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
economy – a new sustainability paradigm? Journal of Cleaner Production. 
Jiao, N. & Evans, S. (2016b) Business models for sustainability: the case of second-
Leising, E., Quist, J. & Bocken, N.M.P. (2018) Circular Economy in the building 
Business Sustainability South Africa. 
Murray, A., Skene, K. & Haynes, K. (2017) The circular economy: an 
M. & Boon-Brett, L. (2018) Sustainability assessment of second use 
development and circular economy: alternative concepts for trans-
Stubbs, W. & Cocklin, C. (2008) Conceptualizing a ‘sustainability business model’. 
Yip, A.W.H. & Bocken, N.M.P. (2018) Sustainable business model archetypes for 
(SSCM) are considered promising approaches for managing sustainability issues. 
sustainability, sufficiency, business model, value creation, social practice theory 
meet sustainability criteria. Next to technology-focused efficiency (relative 
approaches, sufficiency is a specific kind of behavior-based sustainability strategy 
business models to support a social transition towards strong sustainability. Value 
enough. In the sustainability discourse it is generally understood as changes in 
Companies can support lifestyles striving towards strong sustainability, such as 
the sustainable business model archetypes, next to e.g. maximizing material and 
support a social transition towards strong sustainability by reflecting on 
to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Tiemann, I. (2018) Sustainability-
Daly, M. (2015) Practicing sustainability: Lessons from a sustainable cohousing 
Perspective on Business Models: Value Creation for Sustainability. Journal of 
Leitner, M. & Littig, B. (2015) Doing sustainability in a Viennese Cohousing project. 
Sustainability, 1(1), 1–15. 
measures in different community-based initiatives. Sustainability, 10, 1047. 
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues. Organization 
Schröder, T. (2013) Sustainability in Practice: A study of how reflexive agents 
Stahel, W. (2001) Sustainability and Services. In: Charter, M., & Tischner, U. (eds.), 
sustainability implications (Plewnia and Guenther, 2018). To address this issue, 
economy can influence its sustainability impacts. Conceptual as well as empirical 
Martin, C.J. (2016), “The sharing economy: A pathway to sustainability or a 
sustainability research”, Management Decision, Vol. 56 No. 3, pp. 570–583. 
1 Center for Transformation Research and Sustainability (TransZent), 
models (e.g. Tchibo) and smaller, more sustainability-oriented sharing companies 
1Chair of Business Administration, esp. Sustainability Management 
TU Dresden; 2PRISMA - Centre for Sustainability Measurement and 
more sustainability have significantly increased the shares of decentralized 
sustainability transition 
Departing from a normative definition of the sharing economy for sustainability, 
Sustainability 
sustainability potential of the sharing economy to facilitate access over ownership, 
the sharing economy and its purported sustainability potential. Quite simply, we 
sharing economy for sustainability, demarcating those practices that are more 
platforms and their subsequent sustainability implications. Our contribution 
sustainability impacts that platforms may give rise to. 
economy for sustainability.  
sustainability. Furthermore, we hope to contribute to business model literature in 
Sharing: Sustainability and Institutionalisation Pathways. We also intend to 
Curtis, S.K., Lehner, M., 2019. Defining the Sharing Economy for Sustainability. 
Sustainability 11, 567. https://doi.org/10.3390/su11030567 
Ertz, M., Leblanc-Proulx, S., 2018. Sustainability in the collaborative economy: A 
Creation in the Sharing Economy: The Case of Mobike. Sustainability 9, 1504. 
Martin, C.J., 2016. The sharing economy: A pathway to sustainability or a 
Plewnia, F., Guenther, E., 2018. Mapping the sharing economy for sustainability 
Sustainability 10, 2336. https://doi.org/10.3390/su10072336 
Towards a sustainability assessment 
sectors of the economy.  However, the sustainability implications of the sharing 
but systematic sustainability assessments of such operations are not available yet. 
comprehensive analysis of the sustainability impacts of sharing economy 
of a general sustainability assessment framework for sharing economy businesses. 
However, the sustainability implications of the sharing economy have not been 
environmental and social impacts of such businesses, but systematic sustainability 
more comprehensive analysis of the sustainability impacts of sharing economy 
may have significant sustainability impacts, platform providers have only limited 
the sustainability implications of the network since the database provided by the 
sustainability assessment framework for sharing economy businesses.  
sharing economy business can provide a step towards sustainability in a certain 
Interface Founder Ray Anderson’s metaphor of ‘Mount Sustainability’, this 
Professor for Corporate Sustainability, ESCP Europe Berlin 
Head of the Chair for Corporate Sustainability  
Research Assistant and PhD Student, Chair for Corporate Sustainability 
Corporate Sustainability 
Corporate Sustainability 
Professor for Corporate Sustainability 
Sustainability Research 
particular expertise in the areas of Entrepreneurship, Sustainability Management, Digital 
