Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability, 
Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Reports #8 
Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Reports are a publication 
platform of the Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Research (ISIS), 
Publisher: Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Research, Merangasse 
Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Reports receive limited review 
by the editors, by the Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Research 
Business Models for the Circular Economy: Developing a typology based on existing literature .......... 3 
The role of circular business models (CBMs) in creating sustainable prosperity.................................. 14 
A Typology of customer value creation in circular business models .................................................... 21 
Quick scan for the social impact of reuse scenarios in a circular economy .......................................... 23 
Unfolding challenges of business model innovation towards circular economy: The case of fashion 
Modelling interconnected business models in the circular economy value chain: The story of portable 
Transition to Business Models for Sustainability:  Link between decision-making in the context of 
sustainability management to changes in business models ................................................................. 32 
sustainability considerations ................................................................................................................. 35 
A Sustainable Business Model Pattern Language: 45 Patterns to Support Sustainability-Oriented 
The Roles of Business Models in Sustainability Transitions: Car Sharing in Sydney ............................. 72 
The missing link in business models for sustainability? Lessons from the sharing economy ............... 88 
Investigating the relationship between sustainability and business model innovation in the context of 
Managing sustainability-oriented business model innovations: A global perspective ......................... 99 
How to facilitate social entrepreneurship for developing circular economy into territories? Feedbacks 
value transactions fostering sustainability .......................................................................................... 134 
Transition of business models towards business models for sustainability:   Insights from four 
The impact of digitalization on business models: An analysis from a sustainability point of view .... 163 
Value Creation and Circular Business Models: What makes a circular business model circular? ...... 196 
Crafting a Sustainable Business: Applying the Circular Economy and Experience Economy to the 
Barriers to new Business Model Innovation in the context of the Circular Economy - a literature 
circumstances. The aim of sustainability stays in the centre so that new business models 
interdisciplinary approaches, on sustainability and on social responsibility, is proud to host 
many countries around the globe). Reverting this decline and supporting sustainability 
political domains. For example, the circular economy emphasises the thrifty use of materials 
generation of new business models that foster sustainability, social inclusion, and circularity. 
Canvas Model” by Jan Jonker, or the book “Business Models for Sustainability” by Peter 
SustainAbility. Recently, this community has also found new platforms, besides online 
Business Models for the Circular Economy: 
Stimulating a transition towards a circular economy (CE) is becoming more and more the 
Transition to a circular economy 
materials or built in sustainability in terms of efficient left alone cyclical use of commodities 
Circular business models 
Circular business models (CBM) are based on the premise of either fully or partially closing 
time leading to value-cycles whereby CBMs promise to contribute to sustainability which can 
stipulating a clear starting point of the (inter) organizational challenges a circular economy 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2015). Growth within: a circular economy vision for a 
Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Research, 
ideas to achieve resource and energy efficiency, and ultimately aim for a circular economy. 
Scheffran (Eds.), Handbook on Sustainability Transition and Sustainable Peace (pp. 
The role of circular business models (CBMs) 
Circular Economy, Social Value Creation, Flourishing, Quality of Life, Social Justice 
The relationship between circular business models (CBMs) and sustainable business models 
(Bocken et al. 2014). More recently, the role of circular economy (CE) as a new paradigm for 
sustainability has been explored (Geissdorfer et al. 2017).  
arguments that equating sustainability to CE, without such considerations, runs the risk of 
reducing sustainability to material efficiency at the expense of broader ideals of equity, 
sustainable business models in general and circular business models in order to address the 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production, 65, 42-56. 
Sustainability: Key Issues. Routledge: EarthScan, pp.219-239.  
Ehrenfeld, J.R. (2004) Can Industrial Ecology be the “Science of Sustainability”? Journal of 
Ehrenfeld, J.R. & Hoffman, A.J. (2013) Flourishing: A Frank Conversation About Sustainability. 
Geissdoerfer, S, Bocken, N., Hutink, E. (2017) The Circular Economy – A new sustainability 
Gregson, N., Crang, M., Fuller, S. and Holmes, H. (2015) Interrogating the Circular Economy: 
Over the last decade, the concept of a circular economy, an industrial economy that is 
and Bocken, 2017). Although the literature on circular economy and circular cities stresses 
literature on circular economy, sustainable and collaborative business modelling and value 
conditions for implementing sustainability-oriented innovations (Boons and Lüdeke-Freund, 
towards sustainable, social and circular business models (e.g. Yunus, Moingeon and 
Lehmann-Ortega, 2010) and circular business models. These business model definitions and 
The preliminary results show that participation in projects for a circular economy is 
The paper contributes to the business modelling and circular economy literature by 
to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production, 65, 
business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M., & Hultink, E. J. (2016). The Circular Economy–A 
new sustainability paradigm?. Journal of Cleaner Production. 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., & Ulgiati, S. (2016). A review on circular economy: the expected 
for Shared Value: Main Report. Cape Town: Network for Business Sustainability South-
and sustainability innovations. International Journal of Technology Management, 22, 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Hansen, E. G. (2012). Business cases for sustainability: 
the role of business model innovation for corporate sustainability. International 
Su, B., Heshmati, A., Geng, Y., & Yu, X. (2013). A review of the circular economy in China: 
circular business models 
from customers for sustainability-related business practices, redefining value creation in the 
framework of circular business models becomes more than relevant for businesses. 
of customer value creation are emphasized in circular business models. More specifically, 
circular business models recent literature outlines the main dimensions of CBM and helps 
creation and circular business models - helps developing a theoretical framework (circular 
customer value creation) that is then applied to 65 cases of circular business models drawn 
from existing literature and representing the diversity of circular business models (in 6 
circular economy, in order to validate the preliminary conclusions of the research. Five cases 
entrepreneurs active in the circular economy to clarify their circular value proposition. At 
scenarios in a circular economy 
Social Impact, Quick Scan, Reuse, Social Life Cycle Assessment, Circular Economy  
For the transition to a more circular economy, it is important to know how the cycling of 
for social impact of a circular economy case. 
which could contribute to optimize social impact assessment in circular economy business 
improving the usability of the SLCA in a more circular economy. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2013). Towards the circular economy. Economic and business 
business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production 
Centre, Institute for Environment and Sustainability, Publications Office of the 
innovation towards circular economy: The 
Circular economy, business models, closed loop, fashion industry, qualitative case study 
of circular economy has  recently gained extensive attention (EMF 2012; 2013), even though 
loops” or “circular economy.“ 
while aspects  related  to circular economy principles,  such  as  product take-back,  reuse  
recycling-focused circular economy strategy in an existing business model. The paper is 
At a micro level, the findings conclude that in order to integrate circular economy 
circular business models require an extended understanding of customers where it is 
and materials. Finally, integrating circular economy strategies into business models may 
and empirical insights from the field of business model innovation and circular economy 
EMF (2012), Towards the Circular Economy: Economic and Business Rationale for an 
EMF (2013), Towards the Circular Economy. Opportunities for the Consumer Goods Sector, 
models in the circular economy value 
Circular economy is a new economic model that 
2016; Lieder and Rashid, 2016). Sustainability on 
2015). This means that circular economy is hardly 
sustainability. We divide circular economy value chain into four phases: 1) design and 
different value chain positions and implications of circular economy to each position’s offer 
circular economy principles in the industry value chain causes serious environmental and 
study the implications of circular economy principles to business models of different actors 
interconnected business models in the circular economy value chain. Managerial 
implications indicate that even product markets have become global, the circular economy 
and reuse. Policy implications indicate that circular economy is hardy possible without policy 
economy value chain. We argue that for circular economy to materialize requires 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., and Ulgiati, S. (2016). A review on circular economy: the expected 
Lewandowski, M. (2016). Designing the Business Models for Circular Economy—Towards the 
Conceptual Framework. Sustainability 8(1): 43-71. 
Lieder, M., and Rashid, A. (2016). Towards circular economy implementation: a 
Sustainability: 
of sustainability management to changes in 
Institute for Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Research, 
Sustainability, 
Sustainability Management, Survey 
organizations. Companies are challenged by various stakeholders to address sustainability 
Business Models for Sustainability (BMfS) is a term used for business models that 
integrate sustainability aspects in the core of organizations. While there is an increasing 
encourage the change towards sustainability. 
Decision-making support systems as well as sustainability management tools support key 
information and time. Previous research shows some links between the sustainability 
awareness of key employees and the application of sustainability management tools in 
Sustainability. Insights about corporate sustainability management, such as addressed 
topics, causes of concerns about sustainability issues and real life praxis in companies can 
responsibly for sustainability topics in the company.  
A survey by Schaltegger et al. has described the status quo of corporate sustainability 
international researchers, they have compared the sustainability management in 11 
corporate sustainability management in Austria. Additionally, questions identifying change 
enable analysis of relation between decision-making for sustainability, particular corporate 
sustainability management practices and business model transformation for sustainability. 
This first-time corporate sustainability survey in Austria will address large companies. In 
addressing range of sustainability activities, such as interaction with stakeholders, 
knowledge and use of sustainability management tools, as well as the questions that aim at 
Sustainability/CSR managers or persons that have main responsibility for the sustainability 
This study is a contribution to attempts to describe status quo of corporate sustainability 
companies that undergo business model change for sustainability, to further explore, 
outcomes of sustainability management, leading to changes in business model, depending 
on the existence or non-existence of the sustainability/CSR manager. 
aimed to reach some sustainability level and adjusted their business model to serve this 
sustainability performance is outcome of such efforts.  
companies that have undergone transformation for sustainability to identify the critical 
Hörisch, J., Johnson, M.P. & Schaltegger, S., 2015. Implementation of Sustainability 
Schaltegger, S. et al., 2013. International Corporate Sustainability Barometer. A Comparative 
http://www2.leuphana.de/csm/InternationalCorporateSustainabilityBarometer.pdf 
Schaltegger, S. et al., 2012. Corporate Sustainability Barometer 2012: Praxisstand und 
 Companies’ perspective to sustainability 
Finnish Forest-Based Sector, New Business Models, Sustainability, Bioeconomy, Circular 
emerging economies, digitalization, climate change, increasing sustainability goals and 
Environmental, social and economic sustainability are important drivers for the 
bioeconomy and circular economy businesses are associated with increased sustainability 
transforming FBS companies. Further, the study focuses on the sustainability considerations; 
e.g. how sustainability principles are integrated in the business models, which sustainability 
relation to bioeconomy and circular economy goals which are linked with the sustainability 
Sustainable business model archetypes introduced by Bocken et al., 2014 and Architecture, 
principles and components in business models for sustainability presented by Wells, 2016) 
develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production, Vol. 65, 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., Ulgiati, S. (2016). A review on circular economy: the expected 
Wood-Based Bioeconomy: A Scenario Analysis for Germany. Sustainability, Vol. 8, No. 
Pfau, S. F., Hagens, J. E., Dankbaar, B., Smits, A. J. M. (2014). Visions of Sustainability in 
Bioeconomy Research. Sustainability, Vol. 6, No. 3, pp. 1222-1249. 
Pätäri S., Tuppura A., Toppinen A., Korhonen J. (2016). Global sustainability megaforces in 
Näyhä, A. & Horn, S. (2012). Environmental sustainability – aspects and criteria in forest 
biorefineries. Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, Vol. 3, No. 2,  
University of Graz, Institute for Systems Sciences, Innovation & Sustainability 
Hopkins, E.A., Read, D.C. & Goss, R.C., 2016. Promoting sustainability in the United States 
45 Patterns to Support Sustainability-
+Supported by Centre for Sustainability Management, Leuphana University, Germany and Copenhagen Business 
used to support sustainable business model innovation (SBMI) and sustainability innovation 
business cases for sustainability and describes the core of a solution that can be repeatedly 
Sustainability. London: SustainAbility.  
sustainability: A practice-based approach introducing business model archetypes, 
II), in terms of innovation, technology, sustainability as well as cooperation with science 
inclusive value creation and sustainability business models to mitigate social exclusion in 
perspective, inclusive strategies also foster sustainability. In the literature, inclusive or frugal 
innovation is somehow related with sustainability – often combining social and economic 
refer to sustainability, but do not have to. Rosca et al. (2016) argue for a conceptual 
separation of frugal innovation, sustainability and business model and stress inclusive 
indirect effects, and only few direct contributions to the sustainability goals. Overall, the 
sustainability goals are not aimed at directly and comprehensively. Several limitations are 
single period, so that mid- or long-term effects of the respective sustainability effects of the 
Sustainability on Corporate Behavior and Performance. Harvard Business School 
Leal Filho, Walter. (2000). Dealing with misconceptions on the concept of sustainability. 
International Journal of Sustainability in Higher Education, v. 1, n. 1, p. 9-19. 
business in sustainability transitions. Journal of Cleaner Production, 45, pp. 20-28. 
Lozano, Rodrigo. (2015). A holistic perspective on corporate sustainability drivers. Corporate 
LÜDEKE-FREUND, Florian. (2009). Business model concepts in corporate sustainability 
contexts: From rhetoric to a generic template for 'business models for sustainability'. 
Centre for Sustainability Management (CSM), Leuphana Universität Lüneburg. 
Sustainability Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues. Organization & 
Strategy, Business model, stakeholder sustainability 
complex. Among this complexity the topic of sustainability (Amini and Bienstock, 2014; 
from these premises it’s easy to assert that, nowadays, sustainability and, within the wide 
sustainability borders, the set of relationships a firm has built with its stakeholders (Freeman 
between firm and stakeholders, i.e. between strategy and sustainability.For the aim of this 
corporate sustainability with strategy (Baumgartner 2014; Baumgartner and Rauter 2017; 
are experiencing several attempts to integrate strategy and sustainability (Adams 2015; 
Amini, M., & Bienstock, C. C. (2014). Corporate sustainability: an integrative definition and 
Baumgartner, R. J. (2014). Managing corporate sustainability and CSR: A conceptual 
Baumgartner, R. J., & Rauter, R. (2017). Strategic perspectives of corporate sustainability 
Baumgartner, R. J., and Rauter, R. (2017). Strategic perspectives of corporate sustainability 
Engert, S., & Baumgartner, R. J. (2016). Corporate sustainability strategy–bridging the gap 
contributions to Corporate Sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 106, 430-442.  
developing business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 140, 144-
Challenges They Present to Corporate Sustainability. Organization & Environment, 
Centre for Industrial Sustainability, Institute for Manufacturing 
stakeholders of business model transformations. Integrating sustainability into business 
companies to evaluate and design the business case for sustainability successfully 
innovation for sustainability (Evans et al., 2017), sustainable value creation (Hart and 
and ‘sustainability’.  
2017. Business model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Hansen, E.G., 2012. Business Cases for Sustainability: 
The Role of Business Model Innovation for Corporate Sustainability. International 
Stubbs W. and Cocklin C. 2008. Conceptualizing a ‘sustainability business model’. 
sustainability, Research-Technology Management, Vol. 60, No. 3, pp.30-39. 
Sustainability Transitions: 
Business Model Innovation, Sustainability, Transition, Car Sharing, Up-Scaling 
mobility regime. Despite whether its sustainability will be proven or not, car sharing business 
sustainability, 
The concept of a circular economy (CE) has become increasingly popular in the recent years 
Building up a circular economy is a complex process that involved various players and 
Bonciu, F., (2014). The European Economy: From a Linear to a Circular Economy. Romanian 
Ellen Macarthur Foundation (2015). ‘Delivering the Circular Economy. A Toolkit for Policy-
Ellen Macarthur Foundation, (2012). Towards the Circular Economy. Retrieved via: 
European Commission (2015). Closing the loop - An EU action plan for the Circular Economy. 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., & Ulgiati, S. (2014). A review on circular economy: The expected 
Jawahir, I.S.  and Bradley, R., (2016). Technological Elements of Circular Economy and the 
Lieder, M., and Rashid, A. (2015). Towards circular economy implementation: A 
and circular economy: Alternative concepts for trans-disciplinary research. 
Witjesa, S. and Lozano, R. (2016).Towards a more Circular Economy: Proposing a framework 
Yap, N.U., 2005. Towards a circular economy: progress and challenges. Green Manag. Int. 50, 
Yuan, Z., Bi, J., Moriguichi, Y., 2006. The circular economy: a new developmentstrategy in 
Zhu, D.J. (1998). Sustainable development calls for circular economy. Science and 
Scholars regard the implementation of sustainability-oriented innovations  as a business 
explanation building (Yin, 2013). We build on three cases concerning sustainability-oriented 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Hansen, E. G. (2012). Business cases for sustainability: 
the role of business model innovation for corporate sustainability. International 
Managing organizational change for sustainability most probably is one of the biggest 
become a critical topic for many organisational sustainability development programs. In 
those organizations that aim for sustainability innovation, human resource management’s 
sustainability oriented innovations. 
major concern for sustainability, sustainable HRM aims to develop and rejuvenate human 
to organizational sustainability is provided through HC management practices and the HRM 
can also be in line with business model of the organization for sustainability (Schaltegger, 
stages of the model, and almost absent for the last stage. Building sustainability oriented 
Buller, P. F.,& McEvoy, G. M. (2016). A model for implementing a sustainability strategy 
sustainability and HRM: A comparative study of sustainability reporting practices by 
Klewitz, J.,& Hansen, E.G. (2014). Sustainability-oriented innovation of SMEs: a systematic 
Millar, C., Hind, P. & Magala, S., 2012. Sustainability and the need for change: organisational 
Schaltegger, S.,Hansen, E. G., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016). Business models for sustainability: 
sustainability? 
sustainability (Martin, 2016). By enabling consumers to conveniently and affordably access 
operate what appear to be business models for sustainability (BMfS).  
organizations’ sustainability strategies (Lüdeke-Freund et al., 2016). Applying Schein’s (2010) 
analysis finds differences in their business models and sustainability outcomes. The findings 
sustainability, with consequences. I also detect a strong connection between founders’ 
My results suggest that the sustainability impact of the sharing economy is contingent 
Martin, C. J. (2016). The sharing economy: A pathway to sustainability or a nightmarish form 
Business Model For Sustainability, Business Model Adaption, Business Model Spread, Solar 
models and business models for sustainability, however, has often pleaded for a stable 
adaption as well as the debate on bringing business models for sustainability to new 
markets. Embedded in the business model for sustainability and business model innovation 
sustainability (Jonker, 2016), this paper contributes both to collaborative value creation and 
Roome N., & Louche C., 2016, Journeying Towards Business Models for Sustainability, 
business models. Yet, extant literature on sustainable business models and sustainability-
understanding of organizational transitions to sustainability, as it allows to explore how 
model innovation for sustainability may coexist and interact within one organization.   
affects a firm’s sustainability transition. Our study aims to contribute to the understanding of 
business model innovation for sustainability, by exploring how a sustainability transition 
Markard, J., Raven, R. and Truffer, B. (2012). Sustainability transitions: an emerging field of 
Schaltegger, S., Ludeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E. (2016). Business models for sustainability: A 
sustainability and business model innovation 
Sustainability, Business Model Innovation, Food Industry, Europe 
Therefore, there is an increasing necessity to prioritize sustainability concerns, and ensure 
the integration of sustainability into organisations’ business models. Such a prioritization and 
improvements in terms of sustainability (Breuer and Lüdeke-Freund, 2017; Carayannis et al., 
sustainability has the potential to inspire and drive business model innovation (Bocken et al., 
Innovation and Sustainability at Enel, “we are not sustainable unless we innovate, and in 
The current study aims to investigate the relationship between sustainability and 
The overall results show that sustainability is slightly positively related to business 
work in the field of sustainability and business model innovation, especially in the context of 
Organizational Sustainability. The Journal of Technology Transfer, 40(1), pp.85–104.  
Business Model Innovation, Corporate Sustainability, and Organisational Values within 
business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 140, pp.144–154.  
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E.G., 2012. Business cases for sustainability: the 
role of business model innovation for corporate sustainability. International Journal of 
models or business models for sustainability. Existing theory is divided in its view on the 
research on the related concepts of corporate sustainability and corporate (social) 
approach. Research addressing the micro-foundations of corporate sustainability is emerging 
managers interpret the ambiguous cues from their organizational context on sustainability 
issues from a cognitive perspective. However, research on corporate sustainability has been 
sustainability 
Recently, there has been some research addressing corporate sustainability from a 
to sustainability arise and are aggregated throughout the organization, how managers sense 
operating, and the corporation proclaims a shared value strategy for sustainability. We 
Managing sustainability-oriented business 
at driving and responding to society’s sustainability demands. Among these, business models 
are increasingly recognised as having an important role to play. Sustainability-oriented 
address sustainability issues along supply chains, whether regional or international. The 
sustainability demands. In order to assess how successful they are in responding to these 
examples of a range of sustainability-oriented business models. Business models were 
The study shows that many sustainability-oriented innovations, within both semi-
society (Schaltegger and Wagner, 2011). Sustainability-driven entrepreneurs not only create 
when connecting with customers who had limited awareness of sustainability issues. The 
Schaltegger S and Wagner M. 2011. Sustainable entrepreneurship and sustainability 
current business models towards new business models (NBMs) that put sustainability at the 
Sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 140, 144-154. 
developing circular economy into territories? 
The shift toward a circular economy is initiated at different scales by a strong diversity of 
repair café, resource-based local networks…). The proximity between circular economy and 
to foster circular economy into territories and discuss about the support that could offer 
entitled RETRACE (interregeurope.eu/retrace/), which aims to promote circular economy 
policies for circular economy within a systemic vision that will be analyzed and 
new policies, rules and type of supports in direct relation with circular economy. Currently, 
 An analysis of actual political instruments for social and circular economy in Nouvelle 
visible the needs for the territory and develop local circular economy. In France, the 
develop sustainable business model archetypes. J. Cleaner Production. 
sustainability 
used to foster material and social sustainability. Exploring this idea, we touch upon the 
value creation in business models. From a sustainability perspective, the core of this 
values such as sustainability, inclusivity and circularity yet it has hardly been touched upon. 
The idea of sustainability addresses a long-standing debate concerning the interactions, 
transactions in everyday economic life. At best sustainability is an add-on in these models. 
Sustainability can be addressed from a variety of perspectives. Here the transactional 
the sustainability debate i.e., natural, human, social, financial, and constructed capital. These 
sustainability debate, known as ‘weak sustainability’. Basically, the critique articulated here 
operationalise the idea of a business model based on strong sustainability necessitates 
forms of multi-value transactions. The idea of ‘strong sustainability’ feeds into a new 
fostering strong sustainability providing an alternative way of shaping and guiding 
in business models. This builds on the premise of strong sustainability. Yet replacing the 
sustainability? How do transactions based on various capitals unfold? Ultimately this raises 
Gutés, M. C. (1996). The concept of weak sustainability. Ecological Economics, 17(3), 147–
induce more travelling, in this way even harming sustainability. However if sharing platforms 
questionnaire with multi-item construct measurements for perceived sustainability, 
considered sustainable since sustainability seems to have a rather negative instead of 
environmental ones. This is necessary to evaluated all the aspect of sustainability about the 
Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Research, 
collaboration. Accountancy & Bedrijfskunde, 4(SI Sustainability and Entrepreneurship), 
& Saija, Pathways  to  Environmental  Sustainability: Methodologies and Experiences 
Developing business models for sustainability is a means to conceptualise transforming our 
models at sufficient speed to address sustainability challenges, suggesting social science 
research on sustainability is a limiting factor (Agyeman, 2011). Moreover, to accelerate the 
In this abstract we argue that to catalyze innovation and embed sustainability, 
suggest that sustainability pioneers like Adnams, have direct and indirect value creation 
interactions with local SME’s via initiatives like their sustainability supply-chain initiative (SSI) 
Adnams’ use of their influence as a sustainability pioneer to shape regional investment 
leadership in regional initiatives contributes to mainstreaming of sustainability values 
local SMEs, who incorporate sustainability values in their core business models, Adnams 
in. Adnams’ sustainability values (cultural resources) reinforces remaining in business 
models based on shared  sustainability values. Thus Adnams’ behaviour was constrained by 
Agyeman, J. (2011). Foreward: Joined-up Research. Researching Sustainability: A Guide to 
Avelino, F. & Rotmns, J. (2011). A dynamic conceptualization of power for sustainability 
business models for sustainability:  
Business Model, Business Models for Sustainability (BMfS), Business Model Innovation 
soil as well as social grievances, more and more attention is paid to sustainability and 
sustainability into the company’s business model is meaningful.  
are changing due to the rising importance of sustainability and what are influencing factors 
companies in the transition towards a business model for sustainability (BMfS) and what are 
sustainability to the concept of business models in order to deal with BMfS. The empirical 
successfully have changed their business model into a business model for sustainability. The 
sustainability within their business model and if their business model changed significantly 
from a conventional one towards a business model for sustainability. Whereby about 13 
sustainability is a slow and sometimes difficult process, but according to all interviewees it is 
sustainability in their business model and into their core business. It can be concluded that 
business models for sustainability are a promising concept for the future, but further 
model for sustainability is possible for different types of companies, either service or 
to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner production,Vol. 
Dyllick, T., Hockerts, K. (2002). Beyond the business case for corporate sustainability. 
for business in sustainability transitions. Journal of Cleaner Production. Vol. 45, pp. 20-
Sustainability. Knowledge Collaboration & Learning for Sustainable Innovation, R. 
value with sustainability: New business models in Austria. Sustainable Innovation 
business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. XXX. (2015). pp.1-11. 
sustainability: Capturing the relationship between sustainability performance, business 
Sustainability: The Integration of Social, Environmental and Economic Performance. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E. G. (2016). Business Models for Sustainability: 
Wells, P.E., (2013). Business Models for Sustainability. Edward Elgar Publishing, Inc.. 
An analysis from a sustainability point of view 
University of Graz, Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Research 
Digitalization, Business Model Innovation, Sustainability, Smart Grid 
sustainability management is important as a core task, in managing rapid change. If there is 
 Is sustainability, in context with digitalization, a driver for the change of business 
whether sustainability plays a role for the actors in the energy sector, in shaping their 
Austrian electric utilities are changing their business models. Energy, Sustainability and 
Facing? Sustainability, 8(8), 726. 
Facing?. Sustainability, 8(8), 726. 
New Business Model, Circular Economy, Steel Reuse, Supply, Construction and Demolition 
creation is getting stronger. Therefore, the transition from linear to circular economy is 
from the construction and demolition industry or with experts about circular economy. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2013). Towards the circular economy.  
towards a circular economy (Jonker 2014; Jurriëns, 2015). The key issue in this circular 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2013). Towards the circular economy. Retrieved from 
Sustainability, New Business Model, Value Creation, Construction Industry, Steel Reuse 
With a view to sustainability, companies are realizing their need to create a win-win 
circular economy. The research question is: How should the process be arranged to match 
shelves and it will bring us one step closer to a circular economy.  
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2013). Towards the circular economy. Retrieved from 
developing business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner production, 140, 144-
Sustainability: Origins, Present Research, and Future Avenues. Organization & 
recycling to the reuse of construction steel to contribute to the circular economy. There are two parts in this 
Social entrepreneurship is often perceived as a panacea for the complex sustainability issues 
IS businesses to truly be sustainable, sustainability has to be a core part of the BM and a 
tool for business model innovation in a circular economy. Delft University of 
Sustainable Entrepreneurship, Business Models for Sustainability, Business Model 
In a modern age where sustainability has become an issue at the forefront of our 
effective behavioural change of the target demographic in favour of sustainability. The 
versions of business models for sustainability (Joyce et al. 2015; Upward & Jones 2016) and 
business model types like sustainability concepts. Evaluating business plans, which were 
expression of "new business model", in reference to circular economy and the CSR Europe 
develop sustainable business model archetypes, Journal of Cleaner Production 65: 42-
Eccles, R. G., & Saltzman, D. (2011). Achieving sustainability through integrated reporting. 
Thomson, I. (2015). ‘But does sustainability need capitalism or an integrated report’ a 
Tudor-Tiron, A., & Dragu, I. (2014). From Sustainability to Integrated Reporting - The Political 
Sustainability is increasingly recognized as a pressing problem facing the modern world. 
Growing social and political demands with regard to sustainability force businesses to 
An aspect of sustainability which attracted limited interest is financial sustainability. For 
organizations promoting sustainability in its various aspects. It should also encompass 
develop sustainable business model archetypes, Journal of Cleaner Production 65: 42-
Eccles, R. G., & Saltzman, D. (2011). Achieving sustainability through integrated reporting. 
Thomson, I. (2015). ‘But does sustainability need capitalism or an integrated report’ a 
Tudor-Tiron, A., & Dragu, I. (2014). From Sustainability to Integrated Reporting - The Political 
Value Creation and Circular Business Models: 
Circular Business Models, Umbrella Concepts, Resource-Life-Extending Strategies, Scale-
elements and circular business models (CBMs). With this, we seek to bring clarity to the 
elements and circular business models (CBMs). With this, we seek to bring clarity to the 
ways of framing both circular economy (CE) (see Brennan et al. (2015); Blomsma and 
have been an investment in business models which underpin the circular economy’s 
Similarly to business models, the concepts of circular economy and circularity can be applied 
models, linear business models with circular elements and circular business models which 
antecedents of the circular economy can be traced back to 1800’s (Brennan et al., 2015), 
the circular economy as an umbrella concept emerges around 1985. Moreover, the business 
relationship between circular business models and sustainable business models is contested 
Our scoping study illustrates that in addition to the use of the terms “circular economy 
business models” or “circular business models” there are also a range of broadly 
Blomsma, F. and Brennan, G. (2017) The emergence of the circular economy: a new framing 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production, 65, 42-56. 
solutions: Closing Loops & the Circular Economy, in Kopnina, H. and Shoreman-Ouimet, 
E. (Eds). Sustainability: Key Issues. Routledge: EarthScan, pp.219-239.   
Geissdoerfer, S,  Bocken, N., Hutink, E. (2017) The Circular Economy – A new sustainability 
Lewandowski,M. (2016). Designing the Business Models for Circular Economy—Towards the 
Conceptual Framework. Sustainability. 8, 43. 
Implementing Triple Bottom Line Sustainability into Global Supply Chains. Sheffield: 
management linking society, chain and actor level. Sustainability. 3 (4), 678–691.  
Tukker, A. (2004) Eight types of Product Service System: Eight Ways to Sustainability? 
Applying the Circular Economy and Experience 
Aalborg Akvavit, Circular Economy, Experience Economy, Industrial Business Transformation, 
The Cloud City project is based on the principles of sustainability, collaboration and 
potential stakeholders, areas in the Spirit Center where principles of circular economy could 
the circular economy covers the value creation and capture, it is not able on itself to 
Business sustainability (Kim, Yoon & Shin 2015). The Spirit Center is designed to co-create 
production involves certain circular economy practices, like recirculating organic material, 
The relation of those three elements with the circular economy values and practices, 
sustainability values drive the business. 
The Spirit Center provides an opportunity to complement the circular economy with the 
industrial sector, can be used to exploit the synergy between the circular economy and the 
circular economy apt to be turned into physical and conceptual experiences? For such 
sustainability. 
business model strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production 
to develop sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production, 65, 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2013). Towards the circular economy: Economic and business 
European Commission. (2014). Scoping study to identify potential circular economy actions, 
Heinberg, R. (2010). What is Sustainability? The Post Carbon Reader Series: Foundation 
Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) (2015). Environmental sustainability of European cities. 
http://www.rpsgroup.com/Ireland/News/pdf/Environmental-Sustainability-of-
Lamberton, G. (2005). Sustainability accounting—a brief history and conceptual framework. 
Local Governments for Sustainability European Secretariat (2016). The Basque Declaration. 
Network for Business Sustainability (2012). Innovating for Sustainability: a guide for 
executives. Network for Business Sustainability. Ontario, Canada. p. 6. 
Innovation in the context of the Circular Economy - a 
Circular Economy, Business Model Innovation, Circular Innovation, Circular Business Models, 
The shift towards the circular economy entails business model innovation as essential 
with barriers to circular economy derived from two literature reviews. Nine relevant barriers 
business models towards the circular economy. 
The circular economy (CE) theoretically gives companies the chance to foster economic 
(Shahbazi et al., 2016) and support their ambition to shift towards circular business models. 
Economy. The Role of Dutch Logistics Industries and Governments”, Sustainability, 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2015), Towards a Circular Economy: Business Rationale for an 
Hall, J. and Wagner, M. (2012), “Integrating Sustainability into Firms' Processes. Performance 
Lewandowski, M. (2016), “Designing the Business Models for Circular Economy—Towards 
the Conceptual Framework”, Sustainability, Vol. 8 No. 1, p. 43. 
awareness and performance for promoting circular economy in China. A case study 
business model innovation in a circular economy”, Industrial Ecology, TUDelft, 2014. 
Murray, A., Skene, K. and Haynes, K. (2015), “The Circular Economy. An Interdisciplinary 
on implementation of waste-to-energy (WTE) supply chain for circular economy 
Redistributed Manufacturing to a Circular Economy”, in Setchi, R., Howlett, R.J., Liu, Y. 
Renswoude, K. van, Wolde, A.T. and Joustra, D.J. (2015), Circular Business Models. Part 1: An 
of Circular Economy Business Models by Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs). 
Barriers and Enablers”, Sustainability, Vol. 8 No. 11, p. 1212. 
Webster, K. (2015), The circular economy - a wealth of flows, 1st ed., Ellen MacArthur 
officials’ awareness on circular economy development in China. Based on municipal 
Literature for Circular Economy Review 
Economy: The Role of Dutch Logistics Industries and Governments. Sustainability 8 (7), 
implementation of waste-to-energy (WTE) supply chain for circular economy system: A 
Redistributed Manufacturing to a Circular Economy. In: Setchi, R., Howlett, R. J., Liu, Y. 
Riisgaard, H., Mosgaard, M. & Zacho, K. O. (2016) Local Circles in a Circular Economy – the 
Rizos, V., Behrens, A. & van der Gaast, W. et al. (2016) Implementation of Circular Economy 
Enablers. Sustainability 8 (11), 1212. 
Sustainability 7 (2), 1957–1969. 
enterprises in a pathway leading to a dead end. In that situation, sustainability is radically 
Research and practice on business sustainability is mainly framed using an instrumental logic 
that asks how can businesses benefit from incorporating sustainability issues into their 
sustainability prove the scientific and practical dominance of the economic domain 
focus on the financial outcomes of sustainability activities rather than on the impacts on 
Hahn et al. 2010; Margolis & Walsh 2003). Thus, current sustainability management 
2016; Whiteman et al. 2013). Besides, researchers in the field of strategic sustainability 
management argue that the reason for the limited impact and effectiveness of sustainability 
management approaches is the lack of strategic orientation of sustainability practices and 
relevance and integration of sustainability management in the sense that both businesses 
societal needs in the long run. Consequently, in order to ensure that sustainability efforts on 
activities need to be directly linked to global sustainability challenges and integrated into a 
The importance of the private sector to successfully tackle sustainability challenges have 
relevance of global sustainability challenges and assessing the attainment of the SDGs on a 
national level (Muff, Kapalka, Dyllick 2017; Globescan & SustainAbility 2017). The Gap Frame 
sustainability management (Globescan & SustainAbility 2017; BSR & GlobeScan 2016). Quite 
sustainability activities. Accordingly, companies fail to meaningfully contribute to some of 
society’s most pressing sustainability challenges. The pressure on the private sector to 
a specific sustainability challenge. Therefore, the need to clarify what sustainable 
which translates the SDGs on a global level into concrete sustainability topics on business 
translator for companies to translate the global SDGs and to formulate sustainability topics 
sustainability. By defining relevant sustainability challenges and taking them as a starting 
receive different attention and relevance within organizations (Globescan & SustainAbility 
problem solving so that it becomes necessary in order to address global sustainability 
address global sustainability challenges can be developed. Taking SVCs as a starting point for 
sustainability management. This process and the concrete business themes help companies 
sustainability management. By translating SDGs into concrete sustainability topics for 
against a principled definition of sustainability” (Broman & Robèrt 2015). Consequently, 
resource and energy efficiency and concepts like the circular economy, optimized packaging 
effectively address sustainability challenges.  “Reliable and affordable (basic) services” (see 
addressing sustainability challenges and most importantly the identification of effective 
Banerjee, S.B. (2011). Embedding sustainability across the organization: A critical perspective. 
Baumgartner, R.J. & Rauter, R. (2017). Strategic perspectives of corporate sustainability 
Bonini, S. & Görner, S. (2011). McKinsey Global Survey Results. The Business of Sustainability. 
Typology From Business-as-Usual to True Business Sustainability. Organization & 
Eccles, R.G., Ioannou, I. & Serafeim, G. (2014). The Impact of Corporate Sustainability on 
Globescan & SustainAbility (2017). Evaluating Progress Towards The Sustainable 
Hahn, T., Figge, F., Pinkse, J. & Preuss, L. (2010). Trade-Offs in Corporate Sustainability: You 
Montabon, F., Pagell, M. & Wu, Z. (2016). Making Sustainability Sustainable. Journal of 
Sustainability. Organization Science. 26 (2). p.pp. 531–549. 
for Corporate Sustainability. Journal of Management Studies, 50(2), pp.307–336.   
Planing, P. In Press. Business model innovation in a circular economy reasons for non-
acceptance of circular business models. Open J. Bus. Model Innov. 
New sustainability driven innovations are clearly needed to renew traditional sectors of 
motivation towards sustainability among key construction value network actors.  
wood material based multistory solutions and addressing sustainability any other than very 
Comparison of Finland and the Netherlands. Sustainability 8: 1017. 
Handbook of Technology and Innovation Management. John Wiley & Sons. 
Business Models, Technology, Sustainability, Fuel Cell 
provide solutions for sustainability matters. Further, new technologies show major influence 
towards sustainable business models. However, sustainability is not an end in itself and 
contribute towards sustainability. In that regard firms need business models that transform 
One technology that shows potential for sustainability is the fuel cell. Using fuel cells, more 
http://www.stechcapital.com/Sustainability.htm, Accessed 15.3.2017 
business models for sustainability, in: Journal of Cleaner Production, Vol. 140, S. 144-
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. G., Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016): Business Models for Sustainability: 
Geschäftsmodelle, Conference paper, 7th Congress on Sustainability Management for 
This paper focuses on social enterprises which work to address sustainability related aspects 
more direct approach, in order to address that sustainability related aspects, since they sits 
electricity company for six consecutive years, and its commitment to the sustainability of the 
develop sustainable business model archetypes. J. Clean. Prod. 65, 42-56.Boons, F., 
When sustainability has to be implemented in business practice and management, new 
(organizational innovation) to implement technologically-new business model archetypes 
and sustainability innovations. International Journal of Technology Management, 
network, Sustainability 
Furthermore implications of new business models on sustainability and sustainable 
digitalization might be one driver for sustainability. But so far it remains unclear whether 
Business models for sustainability  
community, dealing with business models for sustainability (BMfS). Similar to the business 
sustainability, the social, environmental, and the economic dimension instead of focusing 
communicating and governing sustainability within a company (Seele & Lock, 2017; 
sustainability aspects of the respective business model.  
Sustainability aspects 
Sustainability aspects 
sustainability.  
Seele, P., Lock, I. (2017). The game-changing potential of digitalization for sustainability: 
Wells, P.E., (2013). Business Models for Sustainability. Edward Elgar Publishing, Inc.. 
and finally for sustainability issues.  
Besides environmental and societal issues, business sustainability refers to “business 
sustainability “helps describing, analyzing, managing, and communicating (i) a company’s 
for shared value: Main Report. Network for Business Sustainability South Africa. 
Information Systems for Environmental Sustainability. MIS Quarterly, 37(4), 1265–
Sustainability. Organization & Environment, 29(3), 264–289.  
Circular Economy, Organic Waste, Ecological Transition, Material Flow Analysis 
however, a new and more ambitious package, the Circular Economy Package, including 
Management to Circular Economy) underlines both the problem and a possible solution: In 
EU average of 475 kg per person), the circular economy package introduces new challenges 
and actions, such as Smart City Aalborg, the Sustainability Strategy and the Climate Strategy. 
planned to close loops and promote zero-waste society. The principles of Circular Economy 
To exemplify opportunities for embracing circular economy business models, we 
organic waste loops. The second section is inspired by the concept of circular economy and 
Among the various aspects of sustainability, waste, specifically reduction and 
waste directive (2008/98/EC) and finally the Circular Economy Package adopted in 2015. The 
Sustainable Cities & Towns; events that have concluded in urban sustainability initiatives in 
strong connection with the concept of circular economy. This can be observed in some of 
chains”, or “We will pursue the development towards a Circular Economy” (Declaration, 
terms of Circular Economy and Value Creation for organic waste. 
specific approach of Aalborg’s municipality. The municipality’s Sustainability strategy is 
the sustainability strategy focus: “it combines the desire for a sustainable transition with the 
European Union, but now through the Circular Economy Package. So far, the package is 
legit institutions) in a normative setting. In this context, the circular economy concept would 
actions towards circular economy but also to the supply of services -such as district heating- 
Circular Economy and Value 
Circular Economy is about leaving behind the linear economic model that has been around 
context, the concept of Circular Economy is highlighted. According to the Ellen MacArthur 
Foundation, Circular Economy  “is one that is restorative and regenerative by design and 
materials is proposed (see Figure 3 for Circular Economy Figure). 
Following the Circular Economy definition and principles, it is possible to link the 
Circular Economy principles, then a restructuration of the supply chain needs to take place. 
example, one of the characteristics of Circular Economy is that “waste does not exist, and is 
Figure 3- Circular Economy System - Biological 
The opportunities and mechanisms to implement the Circular Economy model in the 
solutions and sustainability, while preserving the historic identity of the city. The project 
Circular Economy, Value 
developed based on the concept of circular economy and value creation (briefly explained in 
Sustainability Goals, there is an adopted target to reduce the per capita food waste, in retail 
Following the concept of circular economy, and value creation through cascading, 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2015). TOWARDS A CIRCULAR ECONOMY: BUSINESS 
AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS on the implementation of the Circular Economy 
Personas for sustainability 
Y. (2017) Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a Unified Perspective 
Using exercises, content, and templates of the Business Innovation Kit and Sustainability 
Innovation Pack we will model sustainability-oriented new business. These tools have been 
 Participants will learn a new method for sustainability-oriented remodelling of 
Exploring Model for the Organization of the Circular Economy 
The circular economy (CE) is mostly studied at the firm-level leading to insights in 
organizational and design principles. Circular Business Models can be seen as the micro 
building blocks of the circular economy. Existing business cases, different typologies and 
insubstantial. There is no structured insight into what constitutes a circular economy on a 
to make a next step in understanding the circular economy: from business models to value 
companies integrate issues and opportunities related to sustainability into business model 
a structured approach to discovering value opportunities embedded in a sustainability-
opportunities and learn how to integrate sustainability into business model innovation with 
programme on sustainable business models run at the Centre for Industrial Sustainability, 
Sustainability, 
Organising Business Models for the Circular Economy 
Managing Sustainability-Oriented Business Models: Frameworks, Tools, and 
Workshop 3:  Exploring a model for the organization of the Circular Economy 
 Small is beautiful – how to focus on resolving local sustainability issues? 
sustainability. However, this was only the beginning; there are still many questions to be 
range from business models in the context of Circular Economy to digitalization and how 
Why sustainability matters 
Given the increasing social and political demands with regard to sustainability, a generation 
called business models for sustainability. A recent definition of a business model for 
sustainability was proposed by Schaltegger et al. (2016, p. 6): “A business model for 
sustainability helps describing, analysing, managing, and communicating (i) a company’s 
among these are innovation management, sustainability management, strategic 
business models for corporate performance in general and corporate sustainability in 
Organising Business Models for the Circular Economy 
Unmistakably, politics and business (re)discover the notion of a circular economy fuelled by 
How can the sustainability impacts of new business models be measured? 
sustainability strategies of companies? 
Managing Sustainability-Oriented Business Models: Frameworks, Tools, and Cases  
and assess their business models for sustainability (BMfS). The aim is to cover the following 
to develop sustainability-oriented business models? What is the experience of the 
2. Implementing BMfS: How can new and sustainability-oriented business models be 
3. Operating and controlling BMfS: Once implemented, how are sustainability-oriented 
sustainability performance requires assessment tools and frameworks. What kind of 
to manage the business models’ sustainability performance? What are the impacts of 
While society is paying an increasing amount of attention to a circular economy, some 
principal elements of this broad concept still need to be explored. The circular economy is 
society. It is only fair to ask what society at large will gain from the circular economy. Will it 
perspective of circular economy. Conceptual as well as empirical contributions are welcome. 
more sustainability on a regional scale.  
How to Model Sustainable Business – The Business Innovation Kit and Sustainability 
and Sustainability Innovation Pack in action. The toolkit facilitates modelling sustainable 
The Circular Economy (CE) has mostly been studied at the firm-level, which has led to 
opportunities and learn how to integrate sustainability into business model innovation with 
programme on sustainable business models run at the Centre for Industrial Sustainability at 
Members of the Team at Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability 
creativity, innovation, and other approaches to sustainability challenges. Journal of 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., Hansen, E.G. (2016). Business models for sustainability: 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., Hansen, E.G. (2016). Business Models for Sustainability: A 
Stubbs, W., Cocklin, C. (2008). Conzeptualizing a “Sustainability Business Model”, 
Business Models for the Circular Economy 
Responsibility focuses on exploring Business Models for the Circular Economy. The Special 
sustainability as a concept that is able to address these challenges in a comprehensive and 
business models directly related to the concept of the circular economy. Papers from a 
developing theoretical and conceptual insights into the Circular Economy or are based on 
Themes on New Business Models for the Circular Economy 
following research questions concerning business models for the Circular Economy: 
Circular Economy both in already-established firms as well as in newly-founded 
business models for the circular economy that have the main objective of 
What are the mechanisms that drive successful NBMs for the Circular Economy? 
involved in new ways of value creation and value sharing in the Circular Economy 
How can already established NBMs for the Circular Economy be scaled-up? Which 
How can NBMs for the Circular Economy be protected in niches to provide them 
How are NBMs for the Circular Economy both solving and (potentially) creating 
Circular Economy be explored and developed to reflect alternative normative and 
the theme of the conference at which the Circular Economy is addressed in an appropriate 
Organising Business Models for the Circular Economy  
Managing Sustainability-Oriented Business Models: Frameworks, Tools, and Cases 
Circular Economy: What’s Society Got to Do with It? 
sustainability (e.g., Upward & Jones, 2016). While we would like to motivate authors to 
corporate sustainability and triple bottomline management (e.g., Schaltegger & Burritt, 
models for sustainability (Schaltegger et al., 2016).  
Baumgartner, R. & Rauter, R. (2017): Strategic perspectives of corporate sustainability 
(2017): Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a Unified Perspective for 
sustainability beyond ecoefficiency, Ecological Economics, Vol. 48, No. 2, 173–187. 
Figge, F. & Hahn, T. (2005): The Cost of Sustainability Capital and the Creation of Sustainable 
Hahn, T.; Figge, F.; Pinkse, J. & Preuss, L. (2010): Trade-Offs in Corporate Sustainability: You 
Sustainability: Differentiating Ethical Motivations, Journal of Business Ethics, online 
Schaltegger, S.; Hansen, E. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016): Business Models for Sustainability: 
Sustainability Research, University of Graz, 
Circular Economy Institute, Paris, France 
Sustainability Research, University of Graz, 
Sustainability Research, University of Graz, 
Sustainability Research, University of Graz, 
Sustainability Research, University of Graz, 
Sustainability, 
Sustainability Research, University of Graz, 
