TRACK 1.2 - ECOSYSTEMS IN SUPPORT OF SUSTAINABILITY .....................................................................92 
TRACK 1.4 - BUSINESS MODELS FOR A CIRCULAR ECONOMY .................................................................264 
TRACK 2.1 - DATA-DRIVEN BUSINESS MODELS FOR SUSTAINABILITY AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION IN 
TRACK 2.2 - BUSINESS MODEL EXPERIMENTATION FOR SUSTAINABILITY ...............................................449 
TRACK 2.4 - RESILIENCE AND PROFITABILITY THROUGH SUSTAINABILITY FOR FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES, 
TRACK 3.1 - ASSESSING AND MANAGING THE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE OF BUSINESS MODELS ..742 
TRACK 3.4 - SHARING ECONOMY BUSINESS MODELS FOR SUSTAINABILITY: DESIGN, FUNCTIONING AND 
FOOD LOSS AND WASTE THROUGH NEW BUSINESS MODELS AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY ......................976 
TRACK 4.1 - NEW THEORETICAL FOUNDATIONS OF BUSINESS MODELS FOR SUSTAINABILITY AS SOCIAL 
intersections among business model and sustainability, digitalization, social inclusion, and 
McGahan, 2010; Mitchell & Coles, 2003) and more recently,  sustainability, social inclusion, circular 
model literature. Specifically, cluster 4 (i.e., yellow cluster) refers to sustainability, social 
believe that today the emerging topics on business models linked to sustainability (cluster 4), 
sustainability performance of sharing economy business models? 
Business models and sustainability 
continued progress toward sustainability. The achievements of SDGs and sustainable business 
How do we build more supportive ecosystems for sustainability? What are the most 
prominent ecosystem actors to support sustainability during the post-pandemic era? 
What are success and failure cases of experimentation with reported sustainability 
Which frameworks, for example, sustainability accounting or integrated reporting, can be 
applied to assess and manage the sustainability performance of business models 
Which best practices, in terms of assessing and managing the sustainability performance of 
Inigo, E. A., Albareda, L., & Ritala, P. (2017). Business model innovation for sustainability: Exploring 
sustainability, and the achievements of SDGs and sustainable business models play a key 
How do we build more supportive ecosystems for sustainability? What are the most 
prominent actors in ecosystems to support sustainability during the post-pandemic era? 
sustainability impacts? 
Which frameworks, for example from sustainability accounting or integrated reporting, can 
be applied to effectively assess and manage the sustainability performance of business 
Which best practices, in terms of assessing and managing the sustainability performance 
improving the sustainability performance of sharing economy business models? Can the 
Track 1.2: Ecosystems in Support of Sustainability. 
Track 1.4: Business Models for a Circular Economy. 
Track 2.1: Data-driven Business Models for Sustainability and Digital Transformation in 
Track 2.2 Business Model Experimentation for Sustainability.  
Track 2.4: Resilience and Profitability through Sustainability for Financial 
Track 3.1: Assessing and Managing the Sustainability Performance of Business 
Track 3.4: Sharing economy business models for sustainability: design, 
Track 4.1: New Theoretical Foundations of Business Models for Sustainability as Social 
sustainability. We link transition thinking to CBM’s as a means for enabling transition 
towards sustainability and circularity. We like to receive submissions addressing and 
circular economy. Cascades -a staircase model from high-quality applications to low(er)-quality 
applications- are an inherent part of the circular economy. Collaboration is recognized as key 
Regenerative Circular Economy, Collaborative Business Models, Cascade Principles, Value Chain 
economy to a regenerative, circular economy, focused on closing the resource loop and recovery. 
business model or create new circular business models (Bocken et al., 2015). Our research 
models in the transition towards a regenerative circular economy. This includes companies not only 
Circular economy 
The transition to a circular economy is one of the necessary conditions to reach prosperity while 
challenges. According to McKinsey (2017), circular economy means creating 'a reliable way for 
Circular economy is defined as an economic and industrial system ‘where material loops are slowed 
Cascades represent a specific approach to the circular economy (EllenMacArthurFoundation, 2013; 
1994). Cascades, even though they are an inherent part of the circular economy, are not yet widely 
exchange materials because within a circular economy one company’s waste is another company’s 
realizing a circular economy (Bocken et al., 2016). It is important to include all stakeholders when 
Circular business models are networked by nature: they require collaboration, communication and 
organisations struggle to adapt their existing business model or create new circular business models 
disciplinary experimentation with circular business models. To move towards a regenerative 
according to the conceptual framework for circular economy in chain collaboration (Leising et al., 
Circular economy and Cascading 
they are working on. Respondents were asked to define ‘Circular Economy’ and ‘Cascading’ In the 
first round of interviews, respondents defined circular economy based on concepts including 
In the second round of interviews, the concept of circular economy was described in more detail 
circular economy by learning about the possibilities and how to connect to others while making a 
point in the transition to a circular economy: ‘some partners have great ideas that further sprouts, 
increase the magnitude by learning and developing. They created awareness of sustainability in 
circular economy, focused on closing the resource loop and recovery. We investigated collaboration 
a regenerative circular economy. 
positive force to create a positive impact on the triple top line of sustainability: ecological, 
economy: definition and approaches. Circular Economy and Sustainability, 1(1), 49-81.  
innovation?. Sustainability, 11(3), 635. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2015). Towards a circular economy: Business rationale for an accelerated 
Fogarassy, C., & Finger, D. (2020). Theoretical and Practical Approaches of Circular Economy for Business 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D., & Hekkert, M. (2017). Conceptualizing the circular economy: An analysis of 114 
Korhonen, J., Honkasalo, A., & Seppälä, J. (2018). Circular economy: the concept and its limitations. Ecological 
Kriron, D., Kruschwiz, N., Reeves, M., and Goh, E. (2013). The Benefits of Sustainability-Driven Innovation. 
Leising, E., Quist, J., & Bocken, N. (2018). Circular Economy in the building sector: Three cases and a 
Mair, C., & Stern, T. (2017). Cascading utilization of wood: a matter of circular economy?. Current Forestry 
McKinsey (2017) Mapping the benefits of a circular economy. McKinsey Quarterly 
Latan, H. (2019). The role of new product development in underpinning the circular economy. 
Rohrbeck, R., Konnertz, L., & Knab, S. (2013). Collaborative business modelling for systemic and sustainability 
Sirkin, T., & ten Houten, M. (1994). The cascade chain: a theory and tool for achieving resource sustainability 
Sumter, D., de Koning, J., Bakker, C., & Balkenende, R. (2020). Circular economy competencies for design. 
Sustainability, 12(4), 1561 
Winans, K., A. Kendall & H. Deng (2017). The history and current applications of the circular economy concept. 
World Economic Forum (2014) Towards the Circular Economy. Accelerating the scale-up across global supply 
healthcare system’s long-term sustainability (Broerse & Bunders-Aelen, 2010; Johansen & van den 
financial and/or societal sustainability. These developments result in a need to map how this affects 
sustainability to realize the plurality of ambitions. These complex questions fit within a broader 
Sustainability 
(Yildiz et al., 2015), sustainability innovations(Rohrbeck et 
al., 2013), multiple stakeholders and sustainability 
Research into collaborative business models addresses sustainability (Rohrbeck et al., 2013) and 
models: Value creation for sustainability. Journal of Business Ethics, 166(1), 3-18.  
Rohrbeck, R., Konnertz, L., & Knab, S. (2013). Collaborative business modelling for systemic and sustainability 
sustainability approach. In Social responsibility and sustainability (pp. 3-36). Springer.  
sustainability. 
for sustainability. Journal of cleaner production, 214, 995-1010. 
extending business models for sustainability. Infrastrucure complexity. 2 (4), Available from:  
models: Value creation for sustainability. Journal of Business Ethics. 166, 3-18. 
perspective. Energy, sustainability and society. 9 (1), 1-18. 
to meet the increasing request and goals for circular economy and GBM´s – green transition. 
to support ecosystems for sustainability. The effects and value related impacts of applying SBVN´s 
Aagaard, A., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Wells, P. (Eds.) (2021). Business Models for Sustainability Transitions – How 
Hagman, L., Feiz, R. (2021). Advancing the circular economy through organic by-product valorisation: a multi-
sustainability-oriented business model innovation approaches. Technical University of Denmark 
sustainability transition  
In the sustainability transition, firms and their business models have an essential role (Loorbach 
2018). However, the current sustainability challenges in society cannot be met with the prevailing 
The sustainability transition requires the exploration of alternative futures. The aim of foresight 
Overall, the sustainability transition cannot happen without different societal actors and levels of 
collaborative business models as a remedy for the sustainability transition: Finnish forest-based 
The chosen sector was seen as ideal for this study for several reasons. The current sustainability 
in the sustainability transition (track 1.1.) while integrating different conceptual and theoretical 
Avelino, F., Wittmayer, J. M. 2016. Shifting power relations in sustainability transitions: a   multi-actor 
Baumgartner, J., Rauter, R., 2017. Strategic perspectives of corporate sustainability management to develop 
Köhler, J., Geels, F. W., Kern, F., Markard, J., Wieczorek, A. et al. 2019. An agenda for sustainability transitions 
sustainability transitions. J. Clean. Prod, 45:20-28. 
circular economy and sustainability. J. Clean. Prod. 209:1294–1306. 
Robinson, J., Burch, S., Talwar, S., O’Shea, M., Walsh, M. 2011. Envisioning sustainability: Recent progress in 
the use of participatory backcasting approaches for sustainability research. Technol Forecast Soc 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G., Lüdeke-Freund, F. 2016. Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, Present 
enable sustainability transitions  
Policymakers, businesses, and scholars widely agree that the circular economy is a promising 
creating a collaborative network is the recycling, re-use, and sustainability (RR&S) model. RR&S is 
influence the implementation of circular business models. 
Cluster. Sustainability Science, 16(3), pp.901-918. 
circular economy. Journal of cleaner production, 190, pp.712-721. 
Actors Engagement for The Implementation of Circular Economy Solutions in The Chemical Sector. New 
Sustainability 
entrepreneurs in their endeavors of following a social mission and contributing to sustainability 
OIF’s conversations about financial sustainability were anchored to the question of: “How do we 
pattern taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model innovation. 
sustainability—a design science study. Electronic markets. Forthcoming, 1-23. 
business sustainability is the single most effective way to ensure longstanding success (Fedeli, 
Mama Organa is a social enterprise working in a circular economy and helping vulnerable single 
circular economy. It fosters work integration of vulnerable groups of people, focusing on socially 
sustainability and scaling up. Despite bridging the lack of state support in the early days, now it is 
Circular Economy. (2021) The Circularity Gap Report 2021. Available from: https://www.circularity-
Goyal, S. & Sergi, B. (2015) Social entrepreneurship and sustainability - Understanding the context and key 
characteristics. Journal of Security and Sustainability Issues. 4(3), 269-278. 
sustainability, procurement, research etc; The challenge is making those fragments visible and 
Sustainability-Oriented Ecosystems 
Sustainability-oriented ecosystems help to address grand challenges. Surprisingly, actors’ interests 
influence sustainability-oriented ecosystems. An embedded case-study design is applied. The 
Ecosystem, Interests, Values, Sustainability, Waste 
et al., 2020). Notably, the “study of sustainability in innovation ecosystems is still in its infancy, and 
waste imports. Circular economy questions society’s perceptions of waste and spreads the idea to 
These changes in context and perceptions of sustainability enable new business models and related 
ecosystems that apply technologies in innovative ways to contribute to sustainability. 
of stakeholder interests” (p. 288). Mainly to create win-win solutions in sustainability-oriented 
sustainability-oriented ecosystems. 
dealing with individual interests and values represents a helpful supplement for sustainability-
stakeholder interests may support system change towards sustainability (Freeman & Elms, 2018). 
For instance, DiVito and Ingen-Housz (2021) introduce an individual’s sustainability orientation as 
one aspect that fosters collective sustainability innovation and the emergence of sustainable 
Ortuño and Dentchev, 2020) and sustainability orientation (DiVito & Ingen-Housz, 2021). Generally, 
individuals who show a sustainability orientation consider environmental protection, preservation, 
actors representing for-profit firms could show a sustainability orientation, but this orientation 
Second, actors of non-profit organizations with a sustainability orientation are motivated to change 
Bocken, 2022), a deeper understanding of interests and values in sustainability-oriented 
society to become more sustainable, and well-known sustainability concepts like circular economy, 
sustainability-oriented ecosystems. First, actors may undertake activities to reflect on their 
insights into the emergence and evolution of sustainability-oriented ecosystems and open up new 
exciting discussions on values and interests and their effects in sustainability-oriented ecosystems. 
Calic, G. & Mosakowski, E. (2016) Kicking off social entrepreneurship: How a sustainability orientation 
DiVito, L. & Ingen-Housz, Z. (2021) From individual sustainability orientations to collective sustainability 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M. & Hultink, E. J. (2017) The Circular Economy–A new sustainability 
Kuckertz, A. & Wagner, M. (2010) The influence of sustainability orientation on entrepreneurial intentions—
Circular Business Models 
scaling of circular business models in an efficient way. 
Circular Business Models, Supportive business ecosystem, Extended Producer Responsibility, Eco-
scaling of circular business models in an efficient way. More specifically, we conduct a comparative 
to scale up the circular business models of the actors that are part of the PRO’s ecosystem. 
was to experiment a new tool to try to be more effective in scaling up circular business models 
condition for scaling up the corresponding circular business models (Beulque et al., 2018).  
has initially been launched primarily to boost circular business models based on recycling activities, 
that stimulate experimentation and scaling of circular business models in an efficient way 
a new mechanism to boost experimentation and scaling up of the circular business models, and as 
model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for creation of sustainable 
Peña-Vinces, J, Ferreira, J., Dabić, M., & Gonzalez-Perez, M.A., (2021) Call for Papers: Circular Business Models 
and Sustainability Strategies. Environment, Development and Sustainability, Available from: 
Tsagarakis, K., D’Amado, I., Smol, M., Grigoroudis, E. (2021) Special Issue on Circular Economy as a Driver for 
Circular Economy Ecosystem 
circular economy business transformation and entrepreneurial ecosystems as well as provide 
Circular economy, entrepreneurial ecosystems, ecosystem coordination, circular startups 
The circular economy is increasingly becoming a top priority for many national and local 
economy, circular business models, and circular strategies (Brown, Bocken & Balkende, 2019; 
Konietzko et al., 2020).  Scholars of the circular economy point to the systemic nature of circular 
understanding of the circular economy (Kanda, Geissdoerfer & Hjelm, 2021).  
understanding circular innovations, circular business models and circular transitions. Circular 
regenerated. As such, the circular economy holds promise for addressing growing ecological 
work on circular business models and circular strategies argues that circular businesses and 
entrepreneurial ecosystem and circular economy literatures. Our study also has important 
contribute to the emerging literature on circular economy and circular economic systems (Kanda et 
128 circular business models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 245, 118528. 
intermediaries in sustainability transitions. Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, 36, 
Kanda, W., Geissdoerfer, M., & Hjelm, O. (2021) From circular business models to circular business 
M. (2021). Pathways for Extended Producer Responsibility on the road to a Circular Economy. WHITE 
Sustainability issues are increasingly asking to redesign modern economic systems, realizing a 
transition toward the sustainability paradigm (De Bernardi and Azucar, 2020). Since they control 
The call for engaging with multiple stakeholders when sustainability issues are at stake arises from 
experimentation and learning processes aimed at combining sustainability solutions at the level of 
contributing to the conference track “Ecosystems in Support of Sustainability”. 
of sustainability has turned out to be not easy. A more widespread usage of the app may allow 
sustainability (i.e., people, planet, profit). Adopting a systemic approach, we proposed a DPM chart 
food waste: Causes and potential for action’, Sustainability (Switzerland), Multidisciplinary Digital 
Bocken, N.M.P., Weissbrod, I. and Tennant, M. (2016), ‘Business model experimentation for sustainability’, 
Circular Economy: The Route to Decoupling Economic Growth from Resource Consumption?’, 
Pieroni, M.P.P., McAloone, T.C. and Pigosso, D.C.A. (2019), ‘Business model innovation for circular economy 
and sustainability: A review of approaches’, Journal of Cleaner Production, Elsevier B.V., Vol. 215, pp. 
Urbinati, A., Chiaroni, D. and Chiesa, V. (2017), ‘Towards a new taxonomy of circular economy business 
Zucchella, A. and Previtali, P. (2019), ‘Circular business models for sustainable development: A “waste is food” 
Entrepreneurial ecosystems, Sustainable entrepreneurship, Sustainability, Co-creation, Collective 
areas or on how these entrepreneurial ecosystems can be a force for good to foster sustainability 
development, it is important to develop a theory of sustainability-driven entrepreneurial 
development and circular economy 
ecosystems follows the process of developing sustainability opportunities, bottom-up organizing, 
developing sustainability opportunities. Such process of sustainable entrepreneurial ecosystem 
emergence and development is enabled by a mutual perception of sustainability and influenced by 
Having a mutual perception of sustainability across different stakeholders is a fundamental enabler 
sustainability as contributing towards sustainable development and realize the importance of 
“Well, what does sustainability mean to you? That's actually an Earth, which can 
deeply embedded in their economic and socio-cultural context, actively look for sustainability 
sustainability vision for the region which is then translated into the different organizations’ 
“The idea was to use culture as a driver for social change for sustainable, sustainability 
term sustainability targets in policies. While envisioned change towards new ways of organizing for 
sustainability will naturally lead to resistance by some, commitment can be obtained best if the 
the process will return to recognizing sustainability opportunities and iteratively repeat to develop 
understanding of sustainability which is framed around the notion of a circular economy. We do 
only align on their intentions but also have a mutual understanding of sustainability.  
DiVito, L., & Ingen-Housz, Z. (2021). From individual sustainability orientations to collective sustainability 
Elkington, J. (2006). Governance for Sustainability. Corporate Governance: An International Review, 14(6), 
Moggi, S., Pierce, P., & Bernardi, N. (2021). From sustainability to thrivability: A novel framework for 
Schaltegger, S., & Wagner, M. (2011). Sustainable entrepreneurship and sustainability innovation: Categories 
sustainability-driven new 
firms and sustainability 
We submit this extended abstract to Track 1.2 Ecosystems in Support of Sustainability. This research 
(Fobbe and Hilletofth, 2021; Geissdoerfer et al., 2018); iii) SBMs articulate explicit sustainability 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Freund, F.L., Tiemann, I., 2018. Sustainability-oriented business model development: 
Curtis, S.K., Mont, O., 2020. Sharing economy business models for sustainability. J. Clean. Prod. 266, 121519. 
The need to develop an ecosystemic approach aimed at sustainability becomes even more 
In such a scenario, the setting of the right strategy in terms of ecosystem and sustainability can 
action in support of sustainability. 
These firms have chosen to undergo an external certification process concerning sustainability goals 
performance in terms of both profit and sustainability. Therefore, it is believed that future studies 
B Corp, Hybrid business model, Sustainable business model, Corporate sustainability, Sustainable 
Corp Certification for a Circular Approach. Sustainability, 11, 1584. 
Stubbs W., Cocklin C. (2008) Conceptualizing a ‘sustainability business model’. Organization & Environment. 
problems (Roncancio-Marin et al., 2022). The sustainability issues in the global south are more 
and sustainability, business simulation competitions, internships, volunteer programs, 
Circular business models (CBMs) offer many opportunities to create economic, environmental and 
2020; Geissdoerfer et al., 2017). The transition towards a circular economy (CE) requires changes 
to an improvement in environmental or social sustainability or a reduction in primary resource 
circular economy, value, risk, synergies, tensions 
Sustainability. 
Dewick, P., Bengtsson, M., Cohen, M. J., Sarkis, J., & Schröder, P. (2020). Circular economy finance: Clear 
EMF. (2020). Financing the circular economy: Capturing the opportunity. Ellen MacArthur Foundation. 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M., & Hultink, E. J. (2017). The circular economy a new sustainability 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., & Ulgiati, S. (2016). A review on circular economy: the expected transition to a 
Hart, J., & Pomponi, F. (2021). A circular economy: Where will it take us? Circular Economy and Sustainability. 
Hina, M., Chauhan, C., Kaur, P., Kraus, S., & Dhir, A. (2022). Drivers and barriers of circular economy business 
ING. (2020). Rethinking the road to the circular economy. ING Economics Department. 
Korhonen, J., Honkasalo, A., & Seppälä, J. (2018a). Circular economy: The concept and its limitations. 
Manninen, K., Koskela, S., Antikainen, R., Bocken, N., Dahlbo, H., & Aminoff, A. (2018). Do circular economy 
Murray, A., Skene, K., & Haynes, K. (2017). The circular economy: An interdisciplinary exploration of the 
Tukker, A., & Tischner, U. (2006). New business for old Europe. Product services, sustainability and 
Zink, T., & Geyer, R. (2017). Circular Economy Rebound. Journal of Industrial Ecology. 21(3), 593–602. 
Adopting circular business models (CBM) represents a key lever for industry to address urgent 
Adopting circular business models (CBMs), i.e. sustainable business models that focus on “closing, 
systems to circular business models can take different shapes (Geissdoerfer et al., 2020), however, 
circular business models.  
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 65, 42–56. Available 
Fehrer, J.A. & Wieland, H. (2020) A systemic logic for circular business models. Journal of Business Research. 
the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 190, 712–721. Available from: 
Geissdoerfer, M., Pieroni, M.P.P., Pigosso, D.C.A. & Soufani, K. (2020) Circular business models. A review. 
Kanda, W., Geissdoerfer, M. & Hjelm, O. (2021) From circular business models to circular business 
Lewandowski, M. (2016) Designing the business models for circular economy-towards the conceptual 
framework. Sustainability (Switzerland). [Online]. pp.1–28. Available from: doi:10.3390/su8010043. 
Lieder, M. & Rashid, A. (2016) Towards circular economy implementation. A comprehensive review in context 
Parida, V., Burström, T., Visnjic, I. & Wincent, J. (2019) Orchestrating industrial ecosystem in circular economy. 
Pieroni, M.P.P., McAloone, T.C. & Pigosso, D.C.A. (2021) Developing a process model for circular economy 
circular business models 
blockchain can enable and accelerate the transition to a circular economy (Dahl Andersen et al., 
experimenting with blockchain-based circular business models. However, the number of existing 
sustainability challenges often require significant socio-cultural, economic, and legislative changes 
enable a circular economy for plastics. This research adopts a qualitative, multiple case study design 
to develop and commercialize blockchain-based circular business models and extend existing 
strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering. 33(5), 308–320. 
blockchain and multi-sensor-driven artificial intelligence can transform circular economy of plastic 
Vaskelainen, T. (2021) On digitalization and sustainability transitions. Environmental Innovation and 
Barriers to the circular economy: Evidence from the European Union (EU). Ecological 
sustainability innovations. Journal of Cleaner Production. 112, 2328–2341.  
Sankaran, K. (2019) Carbon emission and plastic pollution: How circular economy, blockchain, and artificial 
Schwarz, A., de Ruiter, R., Zondervan, E., van Eijk, F. & Huybrechts, L. (2021) A circular economy for 
This paper provides a systematic literature review on circular economy in the fashion industry, with 
(MLP) of sustainability transition literature and circular economy ecosystems literature, this review 
discourse follows the more general circular economy (CE) paradigm, for which scholars and 
fashion?  I bring in the multi-level perspective (MLP) of sustainability transition literature, thereby 
Does the paper contribute to research on emerging entrepreneurship that applies circular economy 
perspective (MLP) of the socio-technical sustainability transition literature, as well as  Aarikka-
contribute to providing a sustainability transition lens to the emerging circular fashion dynamics 
circular economy, fashion industry, circular fashion, circular economy ecosystem, sustainability 
Aarikka-Stenroos, L., Ritala, P. and D. W. Thomas, L. (2021) ‘Circular economy ecosystems: a typology, 
definitions, and implications’, in Teerikangas, S. et al., Research Handbook of Sustainability Agency. 
Bocken, N.M.P. et al. (2016) ‘Product design and business model strategies for a circular economy’, Journal 
Brydges, T. (2021) ‘Closing the loop on take, make, waste: Investigating circular economy practices in the 
Buchel, S. et al. (2022) ‘Disrupting the status quo: a sustainability transitions analysis of the fashion system’, 
Sustainability: Science, Practice and Policy, 18(1), pp. 231–246. 
Franco, M.A. (2017) ‘Circular economy at the micro level: A dynamic view of incumbents’ struggles and 
Geissdoerfer, M. et al. (2017) ‘The Circular Economy – A new sustainability paradigm?’, Journal of Cleaner 
Geissdoerfer, M. et al. (2020) ‘Circular business models: A review’, Journal of Cleaner Production, p. 123741. 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C. and Ulgiati, S. (2016) ‘A review on circular economy: the expected transition to a 
Henry, M. et al. (2020) ‘A typology of circular start-ups: An Analysis of 128 circular business models’, Journal 
Jia, F. et al. (2020) ‘The circular economy in the textile and apparel industry: A systematic literature review’, 
development through a circular economy and stakeholder engagement: A systematic literature 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D. and Hekkert, M. (2017) ‘Conceptualizing the circular economy: An analysis of 114 
focuses on Green Business Models as the environmental, green lenses of sustainability in the 
Environmental sustainability in 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner production, 65, 42-56. 
sustainability-oriented 
Rajala, R., Westerlund, M. & Lampikoski, T. (2016) Environmental sustainability in industrial manufacturing: 
This research explores Business Models for Sustainability (BMfS) developed by emerging 
sustainable business model was defined as “a model where sustainability concepts shape the 
driving force of the firm and its decision making”.  Under BMfS, sustainability is considered part of 
resolve pressing sustainability issues in their societies?” (p.165). 
sustainability challenges, not only through technology innovations, but also through the 
sustainability based on Digital Climate Solutions (DCS) supporting and advancing climate change 
Technologies (the Sustainability and Digital Imperatives) from a system dynamic perspective.  It 
services as part of innovative business models for sustainability.  Figure 2 shows a general 
Generic Logic of Business Model for Sustainability: the case of DCS and ES 
Business Models for Sustainability, Climate Change, Digital Technology Solutions, Ecosystem 
Abdelkafi, N. and Täuscher, K. (2016).  “Business Models for Sustainability From a System Dynamics 
Business-as-Usual to True Business Sustainability”, Organization & Environment, 29(2): 156–174. 
Eteris, E. (2020). “Sustainability and Digitalization: Double Strategy Guidelines in National Development”, 
George, G., Merril, R., and Schillebeeckx, S. (2019) “Digital Sustainability and Entrepreneurship: How Digital 
sustainability discourses”, Social Science Information, 1–21. 
Stubbs, W. and Cocklin, C. (2008). “Conceptualizing a Sustainability Business Model”,  Organization & 
for Sustainability Based on 
School of Business, Innovation and Sustainability,  
Previous research shows that agricultural businesses associate maintenance of sustainability-
Sustainability-oriented BM changes can be realized via a business model innovation process for 
sustainability (BMIpfS) that builds on a systematic and holistic mindset of the involved actors 
agricultural business managers, for initiating the BMIpfS based on the inclusion of sustainability-
whether the managers viewed the inclusion of sustainability-oriented ES as business risks or as 
connection to the uncaptured value inclusion of sustainability-oriented ES in BMs can offer. The 
proactively avoid such breaking points, they viewed value creation and capture of sustainability-
substantial changes to current farming systems required to include sustainability-oriented ES. They 
to be a food producer. Unclear benefits from meeting sustainability targets added to their doubts.  
regarding the connection between individual, sustainability concerns and organisational values in 
activities associated with the initiation of the BMIpfS based on to the inclusion of sustainability-
business model changes for sustainability and from acquiring more knowledge about market 
demand for sustainability-oriented ES. Support is needed by one or several actors that can facilitate 
benefit the implementation of sustainability-oriented BM changes that can play a crucial role in 
business model archetypes. J. Clean. Prod. 65, 42-56. 
process for sustainability: Addressing the status quo of a Swedish biogas-producing farm 
transformation: How intermediaries support businesses in sustainability transitions. Journal of 
for sustainability. J. Clean. Prod. 140, 144-154. 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G., Lüdeke-Freund, F., 2016. Business models for sustainability: Origins, present 
Stubbs, W., Cocklin, C., 2008. Conceptualizing a "sustainability business model". Org. Environ. 21 (2), 103-127. 
elements can be adjusted and innovated to account for sustainability issues (Dentchev et al., 2018, 
al., 2012; Thaler & Sunstein, 2008). This is particularly relevant for topics like sustainability 
2010; Johnson et al., 2012; Lehner, Mont & Heiskanen, 2016) and support sustainability 
organizations that seek to support sustainability through social action and create benefits for 
sustainability and energy consumption. Other selection criteria included availability of expert 
knowledge on sustainability and commitment to use digital information to trigger citizens to save 
regarded as leaders of sustainability roadmaps (Henriksson & Weidman, 2020), seven organizations 
Sustainability / Energy Strategy  
Sustainability / Energy 
Economics / Sustainability 
Energy and Sustainability Think Tank 
Chui, K.T., Lytras, M.D. and Visvizi, A. (2018) Energy sustainability in smart cities: Artificial intelligence, smart 
model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for creation of sustainable 
Henriksson, H. and Weidman Grunewald, E. (2020) The Northern Lights Shine Bright. In Sustainability 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Hansen, E.G. (2016) Business models for sustainability: A co-
Results of providing feedback information in a field trial (No. S6/2011). Working paper sustainability 
Business Models for Sustainability 
for sustainability. Employing a multiple case study approach, we explored examples of 
Further, it illustrates how business model for sustainability serve as a mediator between nature and 
The Circular Economy (CE) is one of the promising perspectives that might offer innovative 
circular economy is not just an adjustment of the current economic fabric by using less and 
transition to a circular economy requires rethinking of supply chains into value cycles, 
business models for sustainability on 
and incumbent firms integrate circular logics in business models (for sustainability) and uncover 
insights on business models for sustainability as vehicles for organizational field change. We make 
novel contributions to the literatures on organizational fields, business models for sustainability 
Business models for sustainability; organizational field logics; productive tensions; hybrid 
Hannah Jones, Chief Sustainability Office, Nike, quoted in GreenBiz, September 20, 2016 
models embed social responsibility logics, so-called Business Models for Sustainability (BMfS) 
intersection of field logic plurality and business models for sustainability.   
Field-level logics and business models for sustainability  
for sustainability (BMfS) are inherently hybrid organizations that combine two or more 
O’Neil & Sarasvathy, 2016). Business models, and business models for sustainability, provide 
fundamental change, such as sustainability and circular economy (Geissdoerfer et al, 2017; Pieroni 
Hvass & Pedersen, 2019). Circular business models that extend product lifecycles, recycle and 
regenerate resources offer solutions to the pressing sustainability issues that plague the fashion 
entrepreneurs of de novo firms and sustainability managers in incumbent firms. We purposefully 
et al, 2014). We asked questions about circular business models and the opportunities and 
Sustainability Week in Review (FSWIR) twice-weekly newsletter from 2016 to 2021. This dataset 
for more than recycling alone and shifted attention and discourse to circular business models, 
business models for sustainability. This combination of analyses allowed us to reflectively tease out 
We observed how logics co-exist in an organizational field and in business models for sustainability 
made from recycled polyester and announced in its 2018 sustainability report its mission to ‘close 
actors, such as activists and small firms, about their sustainability ambitions and claims.  
“The big firms are now, in the last couple of years, they are pushing [sustainability]. [But] I also 
solve the industry’s sustainability problems, for instance, an article published in FastCompany 
sustainability issues in the industry, attention shifted to slowing fashion down. In 2020, the United 
addresses sustainability as an ‘isolated’ problem in the fashion system, whereas circularity is a more 
impending sustainability challenges in the industry.   
announced ambitious sustainability goals. For example, Nike announced it would double its 
The discourse on sustainability challenges catalyzed a shift among field actors towards using a 
for circular business models as they provide feedstock as either final products for rental and resale 
incorporating more holistic elements of circular business models. A few incorporated take-back 
systems prior to 2010 and had established circular business models, large incumbent brands started 
sustainability work’ and as a ‘business opportunity’. For incumbents, circular business model 
recycling and materials innovation to implementing circular business models. The circular logic co-
firms could not adopt rental or resale circular business models due to resources, capability, or 
circular business models (such as repair and resale models) adhering to the emerging circular logic. 
New entrants based on circular business models also fall into this category, as their firms entered 
models for sustainability, highlighting the interplay of actors in establishing, reinforcing and 
Branzei, 2010; Litrico & David, 2017). By showing how business models (for sustainability) adapt to 
Second, our findings contribute to the literatures on business models for sustainability and business 
model innovation, extending our understanding of business models (for sustainability) as 
economic, ecological, and social sustainability. We also extend prior work on circular business 
shifted attention from recycling materials to circular business models. We uncovered how de novo 
(for sustainability) innovation. The meanings and understandings of circular logic, that co-exist, 
for sustainability and argues that business models for sustainability influence organizational field 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production, 65, 42–56.  
strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering, 33(5), 308-320.  
DiVito, L., & Bohnsack, R. (2017). Entrepreneurial orientation and its effect on sustainability decision 
model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for creation of sustainable business 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M. P., & Hultink, E. J. (2017). The Circular Economy – A new 
sustainability paradigm? Journal of Cleaner Production.  
Hahn, T., Preuss, L., Pinkse, J., & Figge, F. (2014). Cognitive Frames in Corporate Sustainability: Managerial 
circular economy. In PhD series, No. 06-2016. Copenhagen Business School. 
Hvass, K. K., & Pedersen, E. R. G. (2019). Toward circular economy of fashion: Experiences from a brand’s 
heterogeneity of sustainability business models. Long Range Planning, 51(1), 158–183.  
Pieroni, M. P. P., McAloone, T. C., & Pigosso, D. C. A. (2019). Business model innovation for circular economy 
and sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of Cleaner Production, 215, 198–216.  
Roome, N., & Louche, C. (2016). Journeying Toward Business Models for Sustainability: A Conceptual Model 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. G., & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016). Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, Present 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Hansen, E. G. (2016). Business models for sustainability: A co-
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a “Sustainability Business Model.” Organization & 
In this paper, we highlight the growing urgency of sustainability transitions in general and circularity 
cause and customise it for a circular economy. The resulting framework takes shape in an open-
Circular economy, multi-value creation, sustainable regional development, task democracy, value-
To many of us, a circular economy is the ideal of keeping precious or harmful materials in endless 
business strategy (e.g., Jonker and Faber, 2021) to circular economy policy (e.g. European 
becomes clear that the problem of realising a circular economy is a problem in which many actors 
We consider the issues of a circular economy and sustainable development as two sides of the same 
circular economy principally focuses on organising value preservation, thus minimising the use of 
back and forth between both concepts of sustainable development and circular economy 
focus on societal coordination of circular economy. This is a matter of political choice, which 
response over the past decades has been inadequate. For circular economy too, the pressure is on. 
reach a fully circular economy by 2050 (Planbureau voor de Leefomgeving, 2021). Even a modest 
circular economy policies. 
What is complex and dynamic in a circular economy? 
In summary, the complexity of a circular economy lies not just in its economical or technological 
economic and political arenas, while sustainability by nature is a multi-value phenomenon. This is 
As indicated, sustainability (and circularity) is a matter not just for companies or governments, nor 
politicises the issue of sustainability. We visualise this in a ‘value-actor matrix’ (Figure 1), where the 
Challenges to a circular economy  
development and circular economy, and the objective of understanding and coordinating across 
of cooperatives. So, new concepts for coordination of circular economy transitions need to 
In short, for the sake of rapid proliferation, new coordination models for circular economy need to 
to adjust lifestyles or raising kids with sustainability values.  
votes. As a result, most or all parties are reluctant to ask for sacrifices for sustainability, even while 
sustainability is widely considered a core value. This collective bias creates a blind spot in societies. 
at Europe’s borders. The difference: sustainability is about elsewhere and later; democracy is about 
This indicates that ideological competition results in failing leadership for sustainability. Liberal 
and electoral democratic political systems tend to postpone necessary sustainability transitions 
product design and circular economy into political transition management, coordination theory and 
Sustainability transition tasks 
sustainability values  
models for sustainability impact 
The first is prioritising sustainability issues by voting, to set an agenda. Second is developing and 
including applications for local circular economy and for municipal districts, where council 
regional circular economy 
In this section, we customise the theory of task democracy for use in circular economy transitions, 
The circular economy framework we want to construct from the task democracy theory needs to 
sustainable development, it is slightly less complex in a circular economy, which has sectoral 
Task democratic circular economy manifesto 
Consumption And Production) includes a circular economy. Taking action is 
new generations with sustainability values. 
and organisation models for sustainability 
coordinate our efforts, building on shared values of sustainability, democracy 
The council has three core tasks: democratically prioritising sustainability issues 
sustainability in our product chain, designed by campaign teams in which our 
product and process design, recycling logistics, circular business models, 
This manifesto is derived from the Task democratic circular economy manifesto 
Table 2 Manifesto for regional circular economy policy 
In this paper, we highlighted the growing urgency of sustainability transitions in general and 
the theory of task democracy. We customised it for a circular economy, in the shape of an open-
speculative and provide no ground for hard conclusions yet. Still, given the urgency of sustainability, 
de Geus, M. (2001). Sustainability, Liberal Democracy, Liberalism. In J. Barry & M. Wissenburg (Eds.), 
European Parliament. (2022a, March 3). Circular economy: Definition, importance and benefits. New 
in onderwijs en bedrijfsleven in Fryslân. JIN Climate and Sustainability. 
Jonker, J., & Faber, N. (2021). Organizing for Sustainability: A Guide to Developing New Business Models. 
sustainability metrics for use in life cycle assessment of bio-based products: Resource efficiency and 
Balaton Group, p. 95). The Sustainability Institute. 
a circular economy. https://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/construction-and-demolition-waste-
Can the blockchain be the infrastructure of the circular economy paradigm? In the present paper, 
we first explore the blockchain and circular economy concepts and consider why and how they 
autonomous organizations) will be able to support the circular economy ecosystem.  
Blockchain, Circular Economy, Supply Chain.  
blockchain technologies with the circular economy. 
paradigm of the circular economy shows the premise for unsettling current market mechanisms 
The circular economy has also failed to show its full potential so far. Will the blockchain help to 
unlock it? Sustainability and circularity are two of the current societal challenges which can be 
addressed by the pairing of the blockchain with the concept of the circular economy (Faber and 
be implemented in the circular economy. Research on the literature of both topics has been carried 
raised by the pairing of blockchain technologies and the principles of the circular economy are 
addressed properly. The circular economy ecosystem must still be built and the blockchain’s unique 
will be shown, the problem of the dispersed nature of information is crucial to the circular economy, 
2.2 The Circular Economy 
The unsustainability of the current economic paradigm has been taken for granted (Rifkin, 2012); 
Non-sustainability is the biggest global challenge facing humanity at the beginning of the twenty-
to be applied on a large scale. The so-called circular economy (CE) is currently gaining attention as 
redesign how economies work. The circular economy recognizes effective and efficient economic 
Currently “the circular economy is a generic term for an economy where growth is decoupled from 
al. (2017), it is possible to gather 114 definitions of a circular economy. In an attempt to find 
“A circular economy describes an economic system that is based on business models which replace 
There are several initiatives currently underway to implement the circular economy. The main 
primary challenges related to the circular economy, those related to business models can be 
fact, it has been claimed that pairing digitalization with circular economy principles can transform 
digital solutions can enable circular business models through automated monitoring, control and 
thanks to information systems supported by blockchain technology that will affect circular economy 
intelligent assets that must be governed in the case of the circular economy “by three underlying 
transfer of asset ownership directly between parties participating in the circular economy while 
the circular economy? 
end, digitalization is considered one of the enablers of the circular economy due to its building of 
the circular economy and intelligent asset value drivers is already proving fertile ground for 
networks. This process seems familiar to the particular process enhanced by the circular economy; 
This also holds true for the application of the circular economy on a large scale. The transition 
of the implementation of the circular economy through private blockchains or consortium models, 
impact, while bearing in mind that a circular economy requires broader and more inclusive supply 
reliable circular economy sourcing (Kouhizadeh et al., 2019). 
circular economy requires broader and more inclusive supply chains, not only in industry but also 
in communities (Kouhizadeh et al., 2019), which means considering all the sustainability dimensions 
Antikainen M., Uusitalo T. andKivikytö-Reponen P. (2018) Digitalisation as an Enabler of Circular Economy, 
Circular Economy.” ERCIM News 2017. 
Cavalcanti Sá de Abreu M. and Ceglia D. (2018) On the implementation of a circular economy: The role of 
Dapp, M.M. (2018). Toward a Sustainable Circular Economy Powered by Community-Based Incentive 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2015) Towards the Circular Economy Vol. 1: an economic and business rationale 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2016) Intelligent Assets: unlocking the circular economy potential. Available at: 
Faber, N. and Hadders, H. (2016) Towards a blockchain enabled social contract for sustainability - Creating a 
ntract_for_sustainability_-
chains for the circular economy, Journal of Cleaner Production, 190: 712-721. 
Kalmykova Y., Sadagopan M. and Rosado L. (2018) Circular economy – From review of theories and practices 
Kirchherr J., Reike D. and Hekkert M. (2017) Conceptualizing the circular economy: An analysis of 114 
Barriers to the Circular Economy: Evidence from the European Union (EU), Ecological Economics, 
Kouhizadeh, M., Zhu, Q., & Sarkis, J. (2019). Blockchain and the circular economy: potential tensions and 
Lacy P., Rutqvist J., Lamonica B. (2016) Circular Economy – Dallospreco al valore, Milano, Egea. 
McKinsey Center for Business and Environment (2016) The circular economy: Moving from theory to practice. 
https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/sustainability/our-insights/the-
Murray A., Skene, K. and Haynes, K. (2015) The Circular Economy: An Interdisciplinary Exploration of the 
Reike D., Vermeulen W.J.V. and Witjes S. (2018) The circular economy: New or Refurbished as CE 3.0? — 
Exploring Controversies in the Conceptualization of the Circular Economy through a Focus on History 
Ritzén, S. andSandström Ö., G. (2017) Barriers to the Circular Economy - Integration of Perspectives and 
enhance the Circular Economy. Available at: https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/301380988.pdf 
World Economic Forum (2014) Towards the Circular Economy: Accelerating the scale-up across global supply 
A transition to a circular economy is believed to be able to harmonize economic growth with 
one of the prominent strategies in the circular economy. Refurbishment prolongs products' 
circular economy also seems to be in combination with access-based business models, within which 
Consumer acceptance, refurbishment, circular economy, systematic literature review 
through a transition to circular economy (Lieder & Rashid, 2016). Circular economy can be defined 
up newness. Based on a systematic literature review on circular economy, Lahane, Prajapati and 
investigated the impact of the Circular economy score, a hypothetical score indicating what 
different sustainability design strategies, namely refurbishment, adaptability to new functions, 
environment and sustainability. Borin, Lindsey-Mullikin and Krishnan (2013) attempted to compare 
Agost, M. J. & Vergara, M. (2020) Principles of Affective Design in Consumers’ Response to Sustainability 
Design Strategies. Sustainability. 12(24), 10573. 
Boyer, R. H., Hunka, A. D., Linder, M., Whalen, K. A. & Habibi, S. (2021) Product labels for the circular economy: 
Bressanelli, G., Perona, M. & Saccani, N. (2019) Benefits and acceptance rate of circular economy alternatives: 
Circular Economy: A Survey and an Evaluation Model. Sustainability. 14(2), 609. 
Camacho-Otero, J., Boks, C. & Pettersen, I. N. (2018) Consumption in the circular economy: A literature 
review. Sustainability. 10(8), 2758. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2013) Towards the Circular Economy. Economic and business rationale for an 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation. (2015) Towards the Circular Economy: Economic and business rationale for an 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M. & Hultink, E. J. (2017) The Circular Economy–A new sustainability 
Holmström, S. & Böhlin, H. (2017) Towards a circular economy: A qualitative study on how to communicate 
Hunka, A. D., Linder, M. & Habibi, S. (2021). Determinants of consumer demand for circular economy 
Koistila, K. (2020) Cultural barriers to circular economy adoption: consumer awareness and attitudes towards 
Lahane, S., Prajapati, H. & Kant, R. (2021) Emergence of circular economy research: a systematic literature 
Lieder, M. & Rashid, A. (2016) Towards circular economy implementation: a comprehensive review in context 
of government subsidies. Sustainability. 12(15), 5979. 
Stahel, W. R. (2016) The circular economy. Nature. 531(7595), 435-438. 
Sumter, D., Bakker, C. & Balkenende, R. (2018) The role of product design in creating circular business models: 
A case study on the lease and refurbishment of baby strollers. Sustainability. 10(7), 2415. 
consumer acceptance of refurbished products. Sustainability. 12(3), 1213. 
1Centre for Sustainability Management, Leuphana University Lüneburg;  
inductive qualitative analysis reveals three types of tensions – conventional, sustainability and 
orientation: conventional, sustainability and circular tensions. Conventional tensions can emerge in 
every startup, while sustainability and circular tensions are specific for startups with a focus on 
sustainability or the circular economy. Sustainability tensions emanate through the attempt of 
By reviewing the literature on the circular economy, Brown et al. (2019) find a shared understanding 
concerning the goals and principles dominating the circular economy literature that are “(1) 
an inherent part of the circular economy (Tapaninaho & Heikkinen, 2022). Similar to sustainable 
aiming for a sustainable circular economy, these are often linked to the existence of several - 
sometimes conflicting - strategic goals, such as satisfying sustainability-oriented customers whilst 
organizational success posed from different stakeholders such as sustainability impact and 
businesses developing and changing towards circular business models. Daddi et al. (2019) apply a 
a focus on collaboration, circular economy and impact. Due to the COVID-19 situation, the program 
sustainability that can be termed ‘sustainability tensions’. Third, ‘circular tensions’ are due to the 
contributing to a transformation to a circular economy through their business models. Especially 
the core strategies leading towards a circular economy (e.g., reorganization of the linear economy 
startups experience tensions of different kinds such as conventional, sustainability and circular 
different stakeholders being involved in incubation programs for the circular economy have 
incubators in the circular economy (Hull et al., 2021) but also experts from the industry, program 
this means that the categories of conventional, sustainability and circular tensions will be more 
circular economy-oriented innovation. Journal of Cleaner Production. 241, 118271. 
Bocken, N. M., Ritala, P., & Huotari, P. (2017). The circular economy: exploring the introduction of the concept 
innovation?. Sustainability. 11 (3), 635. 
sustainability: A focus on circular economy business cases. Corporate Social Responsibility and 
De Angelis, R. (2021). Circular economy and paradox theory: A business model perspective. Journal of Cleaner 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M., & Hultink, E. J. (2017). The Circular Economy–A new 
sustainability paradigm?. Journal of Cleaner Production, 143, 757-768. 
Hahn, T., Figge, F., Pinkse, J., & Preuss, L. (2018). A paradox perspective on corporate sustainability: 
Hahn, T., Preuss, L., Pinkse, J., & Figge, F. (2014). Cognitive frames in corporate sustainability: Managerial 
128 circular business models. Journal of Cleaner Production. 245, 118528. 
Jaeger-Erben, M., Jensen, C., Hofmann, F., & Zwiers, J. (2021). There is no sustainable circular economy 
Masi, D., Day, S., & Godsell, J. (2017). Supply chain configurations in the circular economy: A systematic 
literature review. Sustainability. 9 (9), 1602. 
Morales, A. H. (2020). Exploring Paradoxical Tensions in Circular Business Models—Cases from North Europe. 
Sustainability. 12 (18), 7577. 
Ritzén, S., & Sandström, G. Ö. (2017). Barriers to the Circular Economy–integration of perspectives and 
Tapaninaho, R., & Heikkinen, A. (2022). Value creation in circular economy business for sustainability: A 
van der Byl, C. A., & Slawinski, N. (2015). Embracing tensions in corporate sustainability: A review of research 
Circular business models in the wind 
Potential sustainability benefits and industrial 
of Leeds; 5Sustainability Research Institute, University of Leeds 
to environmental impacts. Thus, much of the ongoing sustainability research on WTs have been 
business models (CBMs) can have in driving implementation of circular economy (CE) strategies for 
summarises the key potential sustainability benefits related to 14 CBMs with application to the 
Business models, circular economy, circular value chain, renewable energy, wind turbines. 
accompanied with demand-side resource efficiency improvements driven by circular economy (CE) 
relevance of circular business models (CBMs) to facilitate the configuration of circular value chains 
Sustainability potential 
Economic sustainability 
Environmental sustainability 
Social sustainability 
Table 1.  Overview of circular business models with application to the wind industry. Acronyms: GHG – greenhouse gases, LCOE – levelised cost of electricity, OEM – original equipment manufacturer, PtG – 
Sustainability potential 
Economic sustainability 
Environmental sustainability 
Social sustainability 
sustainability benefits and industrial trade-offs related to 14 CBMs applicable to the wind industry, 
Circular business models in the wind industry 
business offering, the value creation, delivery and capture mechanisms, the potential sustainability 
requirements and potential sustainability benefits of the 14 CBMs with application to the wind 
sustainability benefits (or net positive impacts) are achieved. This requires action to be taken in the 
Use robust sustainability assessment frameworks, tools and indicators 
building robust CE business cases is essential to demonstrate the sustainability benefits of 
with the goal of maximising sustainability benefits. In this process, it is essential to address and 
a circular economy. Journal of Industrial Production and Engineering. 33: 308-320. 
EEA, 2021. A framework for enabling circular business models in Europe. Brussels: European Environment 
circular economy. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Review. 97: 165-176. 
Ecosystems. Sustainability 12(1): 417. 
Mendoza, J.M.F., Gallego-Schmid A., Velenturf A.P.M., Jensen P.D., Ibarra, D. 2022. Circular economy business 
models and technology management strategies in the wind industry: sustainability potential, 
Rosa P., Sassanelli C., Terzi S., 2020. Circular Business Models versus circular benefits: An assessment in the 
Velenturf, A.P.M., 2021. A Framework and Baseline for the Integration of a Sustainable Circular Economy in 
Velenturf A.P.M., Purnell P., Jensen P.D., 2021. Reducing material criticality through circular business models: 
Circular Business Models and 
The magnitude of the ecological, economic and social sustainability challenges of this historical 
circular economy (CE) (Desing et al., 2020; Mohammed et al., 2021). For one, within the context of 
that can be used for the theoretical coupling of research on circular business models (CBMs). 
* This extended abstract is based on: De Angelis, R. (2021). Circular Economy Business Models: 
a Repertoire of Theoretical Relationships and a Research Agenda. Circular Economy and 
Sustainability, https://doi.org/10.1007/s43615-021-00133-x. This article is published open access 
Furthermore, this article draws on sustainability transitions and systems theories, which have 
received some application in corporate sustainability and CE studies (e.g., Sarasini and Linder, 2018; 
circular business models, systems thinking, strategic management, transitions theories. 
Bansal, T. & Song, H-C.  (2017). Similar but not the same: Differentiating corporate sustainability from 
Barreiro-Gen, M. & Lozano, R. (2020). How circular is the circular economy? Analysing the implementation of 
circular economy in organisations. Business Strategy and the Environment, DOI: 10.1002/bse.2590. 
Bocken, N., Weissbrod, I. & Antikainen, M. (2021). Business model experimentation for the circular economy: 
Definition and approaches. Circular Economy and Sustainability, https://doi.org/10.1007/s43615-
Borrello, M., Pascucci, S., & Cembalo, L. (2020). Three propositions to unify circular economy research: A 
review. Sustainability, 12, 4069. 
Desing, H., Brunner, D., Takacs, F., Nahrath, S., Frankenberger, K., & Hischier, R. (2020). A circular economy 
EMF (Ellen MacArthur Foundation). (2019). Completing the picture. How the circular economy tackles climate 
EMF & McKinsey. (2012). Towards the circular economy: Economic and business rationale for an accelerated 
EMF & McKinsey. (2013). Towards the circular economy: Opportunities for the consumer goods sector. 
Fehrer, J., & Wieland, H. (2021). A systemic logic for circular business models. Journal of Business Research, 
Geissdoerfer, M., Pieroni, M., Pigosso, D., & Soufani, K. (2020). Circular business models: A review. Journal of 
Goyal, S., Chauhan, S., & Mishra, P.  (2021). Circular economy research: A bibliometric analysis (2000 - 2019) 
themes and emerging research trends in circular economy. Sustainability, 12, 1633. 
global economy and ecosystems and opportunities for circular economy strategies. Resources, 
society levels—A view into circular economy native and adopter companies. Business Strategy and 
circular economy. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 149, 115-129. 
Webster, K. (2021). A circular economy is about the economy. Circular Economy and Sustainability, 
Webster, K. (2013). What might we say about a circular economy? Some temptations to avoid if possible. 
Williams, A., Kennedy, S., Philipp, F. & Whiteman, G. (2017). System thinking: A review of sustainability 
Sustainability and Climate Change of Bologna Business School 
value networks plays a pivotal role in a circular economy where value is retained in further 
Circular economy, business models, cooperation, collaboration, bio-based plastics. 
Hartman, C. L., Hofman, P. S. and Stafford, E. R. (1999) Partnerships: a path to Sustainability,  Business 
Potting, J., Hekkert, M.P., Worrell, E. and Hanemaaijer, A., (2017) Circular economy: measuring innovation in 
Cooperation for the Transition to a Circular Economy. Sustainability , 8 (11), 1153.  
towards a system of circular economy in the South Pacific Region. But progress is still necessary in 
Program, for the South Pacific Islands to benefit from a circular economy, new innovative business 
indigenous knowledge could inform and guide this radical shift towards a global circular economy. 
Circular economy is based on recycling, repairing, remanufacturing, reusing and finally managing 
circular economy can have economic, social, and environmental benefits such as reducing the 
A literature review of new business model theories, such as, but not limited to, circular economy, 
concept of Circular Economy, being development-oriented, improve the humanitarian aid 
sustainability of the humanitarian sector. Important elements mentioned in the Charter are cutting 
implementation of new environmentally friendly business models such as the circular economy. 
New business models, circular economy, humanitarian emergencies, development, environmental 
Bianchini, A., Rossi, J. and Pellegrini, M., (2019). Overcoming the main barriers of circular economy 
implementation through a new visualization tool for circular business models. Sustainability, 11(23), 
Halog, A. and Anieke, S., (2021). A review of circular economy studies in developed countries and its potential 
adoption in developing countries. Circular Economy and Sustainability. Springer. 1(1), 209-230. 
Jonker, J., Stegeman, H. and Faber, N., (2017). The Circular Economy-Developments, concepts, and research 
Kalmykova, Y., Sadagopan, M. and Rosado, L., (2018). Circular economy–From review of theories and 
Institute for the Advanced Study of Sustainability. 
Morseletto, P., (2020). Targets for a circular economy. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 153, 104-553. 
integrative approach led by circular economy aspirations. Minerals, 9(5), 286. 
1Maastricht Sustainability Institute, School of Business and Economics 
The circular economy is an alternative paradigm to a wasteful linear economy where products have 
2017). A circular economy is “restorative or regenerative by intention and design” (Ellen Macarthur 
act as accelerators towards a circular economy.  
circular start-ups or initiatives scale up. Recent studies exploring scaling in the circular economy are 
geographical expansion. They noted that circular businesses with a sustainability mindset should 
1a. What factors drive and constraint companies scaling circular business models?  
What pathways do companies use to scale up circular business models? 
interdisciplinary sustainability literature serve as the foundation to provide a more thorough 
economy: definition and approaches. Circular Economy and Sustainability, 1(1), 49-81. 
Bocken, N. M. (2021). Circular business models: Mapping experimentation in multinational firms. In Circular 
Chembessi, C., Beaurain, C., & Cloutier, G. (2021). Understanding the scaling-up of a Circular Economy (CE) 
Ellen MacArthur. (2013). Towards the circular economy: Opportunities for the consumer goods sector. Ellen 
Geissdoerfer, M., Savaget, P., Bocken, N. M., & Hultink, E. J. (2017). The Circular Economy–A new 
sustainability paradigm?. Journal of cleaner production, 143, 757-768. 
Heshmati, A. (2017). A Review of the Circular Economy and its Implementation. International Journal of Green 
128 circular business models. Journal of Cleaner Production, 245, 118528. 
Khan, O., Daddi, T., Iraldo, F., 2020. Microfoundations of dynamic capabilities: insights from circular economy 
ecosystems. Sustainability, 12(1), 417. 
Implementation of circular economy business models by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs): 
Barriers and enablers. Sustainability, 8(11), 1212. 
Täuscher, K., & Abdelkafi, N. (2018). Scalability and robustness of business models for sustainability: A 
(Amit and Zott, 2010). As regenerative circular business models require a broader perspective than 
need new tools or merely the expansion of the existing for sustainability management. We have 
limitations of currently used value chain models for business transformation toward sustainability. 
business model archetypes, Journal of Cleaner Production, Volume 65, 15 February 2014, Pages 42-
Landrum, Nancy E. (2017) Stages of Corporate Sustainability: Integrating the Strong Sustainability Worldview. 
The transition to a circular economy (CE) necessitates businesses to participate in strategies such 
(Hansen and Schmitt, 2021). The success of circular business models (CBMs) is perhaps dependent 
product and component tracking, and sustainability data to partners of products that have been 
partners and itself, as well as sustainability data for partners to communicate to its consumers and 
towards connected systems through collaboration for a circular economy. It examines the 
Bernon, M., Tjahjono, B., Ripanti, E.F., 2018. Aligning retail reverse logistics practice with circular economy 
Bianchini, A., Rossi, J., Pellegrini, M., 2019. Overcoming the main barriers of circular economy implementation 
Sustainability 
Circular Economy challenges in PSS Business Models: an exploratory case study. Procedia CIRP 73, 
Innovation? Sustainability 11, 635. https://doi.org/10.3390/su11030635 
Hussain, M., Malik, M., 2020. Organizational enablers for circular economy in the context of sustainable 
Lüdeke‐Freund, F., Gold, S., Bocken, N.M.P., 2018. A Review and Typology of Circular Economy Business 
business model innovation for the circular economy: A combined literature review and multiple case 
sustainability in circular economy 
stakeholders (Bocken et al 2013). Circular business models have additional characteristics respects 
circular business models and the different industries (Ferasso et al 2020). This could help to better 
aspect that deserve attention is the relationship between circular economy and sustainability 
evaluate the weight of industry in fostering circular business models. A quantitative comparison 
better insight about the correct pathway in sustainability direction. Following real option theory 
The collaboration and partnerships in business are enablers of circular economy business model 
criticalities to the circular economy process. 
To understand the contribution that circular economy can give to sustainability have to be 
and circular economy (Chauhan et al, 2022) can help to know how corporations can achieve 
corporations in different industries. To foster the sustainability of circular economy it is necessary 
technologies that are useful for circular economy. 
Circular economy, sustainability, business model               
Hernández-Chea, R., Jain, A., Bocken, N. M., & Gurtoo, A. (2021). The Business Model in Sustainability 
Sustainability, 
Ferasso, M., Beliaeva, T., Kraus, S., Clauss, T., & Ribeiro‐Soriano, D. (2020). Circular economy business models: 
Hina, M., Chauhan, C., Kaur, P., Kraus, S., & Dhir, A. (2022). Drivers and barriers of circular economy business 
Chauhan, C., Parida, V., & Dhir, A. (2022). Linking circular economy and digitalisation technologies: A 
and costs, the textile industry should shift to solutions that promote sustainability as has been 
Luján-Ornelas et al., 2020; Roy, Sen & Pal, 2020). The Circular Economy (CE) is a promising approach 
Ly, 2021). However, the implementation of Circular Business models could shift the non-sustainable 
applying circular economy techniques not only in terms of environmental value but also economic 
implementation of the Circular Economy Package and the SPIRE Roadmap in various process 
of circular economy and Zero Liquid Discharge options were investigated for a textile industry. In 
By applying the ZERO BRINE processes, the company could capture a new Circular Economy value 
The main driver for the textile companies to apply these circular economy techniques is the 
Recovery – Circular Economy). www.zerobrine.eu. 
Textile Wastewater, Sustainable Business Modelling, Circular Economy, Wastewater Treatment 
Desore, A. & Narula, S.A. (2018) An overview on corporate response towards sustainability issues in textile 
industry. Environment, Development and Sustainability. 20 (4), 1439–1459. doi:10.1007/s10668-
EEA (2019) Textiles in Europe’s circular economy. 19 November 2019. European Environment Agency. 
Lee, K.E. (2017) Environmental Sustainability in the Textile Industry. In: S.S. Muthu (ed.). Sustainability in the 
to Analyse Sustainability in the Textile Industry: A Literature Review. Sustainability. 12 (23), 10193. 
Ly, B. (2021) Competitive advantage and internationalization of a circular economy model in apparel 
performance of textile industry towards sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. 271, 122656. 
A circular business model needs to add the principles of the Circular Economy to the offering. 
Therefore, forms of value aligned to circularity and sustainability must be at the core of the value 
proposition. The benefits of circular economy solutions may seem very small, when considered only 
Circular economy solutions often require traditional linkages among key partners, and other 
cooperate to implement a new circular economy solution in the field of water mining. The paper is 
the benefits society may gain from circular economy solutions. 
benefits derived from circular economy innovations and thus facilitate their implementation and 
Circular business ecosystems, circular economy, business models, water mining, wastewater 
ecosystems. Sustainability, 12(1), 417; https://doi.org/10.3390/su12010417 
How companies integrate circular economy principles 
The transition from a linear economy to a circular economy requires new ways of organizing 
companies aiming to contribute to a circularity transition incorporate circular economy principles 
found that what is often called a circular economy business model, is not necessarily a fully 
services. Few businesses implement truly circular business models. Rather, companies add one or 
circular economy. While use-oriented and result-oriented PSS are deemed to contribute most 
significantly to sustainability, in practice the most implemented type is product-oriented PSS. 
Hence, the question arises of how to leverage this potential for sustainability. One business model 
element of product-oriented PSS contributing to a circular economy is take-back: Products are 
paper contributes to the theorization of transactions within a circular economy, especially product-
Sustainability and Digital Transformation in 
transformation and shape the overall ecosystem value propositions for sustainability. It 
value propositions for sustainability as well as the structure of such areas.  
data-driven business models for sustainability and ecosystem; data acquisition strategy and 
example, machine learning, artificial intelligence to business models for sustainability and 
Business Model for Sustainability to 
sustainability, this paper first dresses the theoretical list of antecedents and motivations that lead 
company to accelerate changes in the business model toward sustainability, this paper contributes 
to the literature on Business Models for Sustainability. 
Business Model, Business Model for Sustainability, Digitalization, Energy Transition, Sustainable 
sustainability (Foss & Saebi, 2018).  
theoretical readiness around business model in relationship to sustainability framework it rises 
need of formal modelling BM for sustainability (BMfS) considering a set of dynamics (e.g. key 
to explore the drivers and antecedents in the domain of business model for sustainability within an 
Business model for sustainability – insights from the 
2011). BMfS might be observed as a reconfiguration of BM toward sustainability. In this case the 
concept of sustainability refers to the merge of environmental topics inside a company strategy, 
proposition. This is achieved by adopting BMI or innovation strategies toward sustainability (Bocken 
Also, the profit-oriented business models are a significant constraint impeding sustainability 
theories of the business model and corporate sustainability, even if elements consider this theory 
as a stand-alone or sub-fields of BM and corporate sustainability (Lüdeke-Freund & Dembek, 2017). 
to a new theory that focus on business model for sustainability (Bocken et al., 2014; Boons & 
sustainability that the company was already pursuing prior the announcement in 2021. This 
sustainability.  
We conclude that the rising of business initiatives about sustainability and in this case around 
sustainability and contingent theories. 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production. 65. Available from: 
models: Value creation for sustainability. Journal of Business Ethics. 166, 3-18. Available from: 
Gauthier, C. & Gilomen, B. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability: Energy Efficiency in Urban Districts. 
and Sustainable Industry: Past Achievements and Future Promises. Sustainability. 11 (2), 391. Available from: 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. G. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, Present 
Schaltegger, S., Hörisch, J. & Freeman, R. E. (2019) Business Cases for Sustainability: A Stakeholder Theory 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E. G., (2016) Business Models for Sustainability: A Co-
Stubbs, W. & Cocklin, C. (2008) Conceptualizing a “Sustainability Business Model”. Organization & 
”Innovation, Exploitation, and Sustainability” implemented the necessary activities. 
In the main outcome, the first type of challenge is related to sustainability concerns when designing 
sustainability 
Digitalization could support a shift toward circular economy but raises paradoxical tensions such as 
controversies between goals and potential of specific digital technologies to drive sustainability. To 
circular economy, digitalization, sustainability, textiles, paradoxical tension  
Digitalization could support a shift toward textiles’ circular economy, but its utilization is not 
circular economy (van Bommel, 2018; Daddi et al., 2019; Aminoff and Sundqvist-Andberg, 2021; 
the digitalization related to circular economy (see, for example, Lopes de Sousa Jabbour et al., 2018; 
opportunity for advancing circular economy. We want to contribute to the discussion on the 
paradoxical tensions of digital paradigms in sustainability transition, specifically in the circular 
digitalization is utilized for implementing circular economy?  
case with sustainability transition.  
The most noted paradoxical tension in corporate sustainability, also in the context of circular 
economy, is the one with competing sustainability goals and related trade-offs (Lazell, Magrizos and 
Morales, 2020; Fehrer and Wieland, 2021). In addition, a move towards circular economy 
society, such as desire for sustainability, and dynamic of consumers’ behaviour, such as 
Unclear and inconsistent definitions, objectives, and expectations for circular economy can cause 
development toward circular economy. In addition, digitalization as such presents a paradoxical 
tension for sustainability (Grigore et al., 2020), in the context of circular economy alike, as, despite 
implement circular economy is likely to create economic value for some actors but at the same time 
in the emerging and complex phenomena such as rapidly evolving circular economy and 
In addition, it was ensured that they have a clear link to both circular economy and digitalization. 
The paradoxical tensions identified on the interface of circular economy and digitalization cover 
Table 1. The paradoxical tensions in circular economy and digitalization  
digitalization in circular economy 
and the sustainability impacts of 
sustainability story 
companies and their sustainability 
CIRCULAR BUSINESS MODELS IN TEXTILE BUSINESS 
transform towards circular economy 
sustainability but 
sustainability 
Some of the tensions are characteristic for circular economy as such but are reflected, and possibly 
amplified, on the interface of circular economy and digitalization. Others emerge specifically when 
digitalization is utilized for circular economy implementation. 
models encourage circular economy behaviour and practices (personalized textiles, new ownership 
benefit circular economy, support business interests (open life-cycle data, data standards, 
evident environmental cost. Secondly, the environmental benefits of circular business models, that 
sustainability is only one dimension in the decision-making of both by consumers and businesses.  
utilizing digitalization in implementing circular economy should be addressed covering both 
economic, environmental, and social impacts. Second, in the fast-evolving field of circular economy 
users on board to ensure that digitalization actually supports the objectives of circular economy.  
Future research areas include further assessing the paradoxical tensions in circular economy in 
ensure the sustainability of the development and how to exploit digitalization for its benefit. 
electronic waste management in the circular economy’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 322, p. 
Networks in a Circular Economy’, Collaboration in a Hyperconnected World. Edited by H.C. 
bottom line of sustainability – A systematic literature review’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 289, p. 
Chizaryfard, A., Trucco, P. and Nuur, C. (2021) ‘The transformation to a circular economy: framing an 
Daddi, T. et al. (2019) ‘Paradoxical tensions and corporate sustainability: A focus on circular economy business 
Fehrer, J.A. and Wieland, H. (2021) ‘A systemic logic for circular business models’, Journal of Business 
Friant, M., Vermeulen, W.J.V. and Salomone, R. (2020) ‘A typology of circular economy discourses: Navigating 
Hahn, T. et al. (2014) ‘Cognitive frames in corporate sustainability: Managerial sensemaking with paradoxical 
ecosystems and opportunities for circular economy strategies’, Resources, Conservation and 
Kouhizadeh, M., Zhu, Q. and Sarkis, J. (2019) ‘Blockchain and the circular economy: potential tensions and 
Lazell, J., Magrizos, S. and Carrigan, M. (2018) ‘Over-claiming the circular economy: The missing dimensions’, 
Lopes de Sousa Jabbour, A. et al. (2018) ‘Industry 4.0 and the circular economy: a proposed research agenda 
Morales, A.H. (2020) ‘Exploring Paradoxical Tensions in Circular Business Models—Cases from North Europe’, 
Sustainability 2020, Vol. 12, Page 7577, 12(18), p. 7577. doi:10.3390/SU12187577. 
Nascimento, D. et al. (2019) ‘Exploring Industry 4.0 technologies to enable circular economy practices in a 
Rajput, S. and Singh, S.P. (2019) ‘Connecting circular economy and industry 4.0’, International Journal of 
Reike, D., Vermeulen, W.J.V. and Witjes, S. (2018) ‘The circular economy: New or Refurbished as CE 3.0? — 
Exploring Controversies in the Conceptualization of the Circular Economy through a Focus on History 
Schroeder, P. et al. (2018) ‘Circular economy and power relations in global value chains: Tensions and trade-
Sehnem, S. et al. (2019) ‘Circular business models: level of maturity’, Management Decision, 57(4), pp. 1043–
Wannags, L.L. and Gold, S. (2020) ‘Assessing tensions in corporate sustainability transition: From a review of 
sustainability and digitalization. A 
Incumbent firms face growing pressure to transform their business towards sustainability. 
However, business models for sustainability (BMfS) and circularity are grounded in fundamentally 
focusing on ventures already founded with sustainability-oriented/hybrid missions. It is unclear if 
challenges (George et al., 2016), such as climate change, by integrating sustainability into their 
business model. This can, however, be challenging as business models for sustainability (BMfS) and 
sustainability potential.  
sustainability, emerging sustainability logic creates friction with the established commercial logic 
founded with hybrid sustainability-oriented missions ( “born hybrids” (Newth & Woods, 
incumbents that are challenged to integrate sustainability into their established commercial logic. 
>100 countries) with recently-updated sustainability targets. In their Swedish division, a self-
While the BMfS change appears rather incremental from a sustainability perspective, it represents 
progressive on sustainability and digitalization) but is not formally involved.  
analyzing data against logics’ ideal types (here, commercial and sustainability logics). Making such 
it remains open-ended how the BMfS, its grounding in commercial and/vs. sustainability logics, the 
Business model; Sustainability; Institutional logics; Hybridity; Process study 
Fehrer, J.A. & Wieland, H. (2020) A systemic logic for circular business models. Journal of Business Research. 
heterogeneity of sustainability business models. Long Range Planning. [Online] 51 (1), 158–183. 
for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 140, 144–154. Available from: 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E.G. (2016) Business models for sustainability. A co-evolutionary 
A concept that relates to digitalization and scalability is sustainability in economic, ecological, and 
healthcare may also support social sustainability by connecting the patient to various peer groups, 
and in turn affect scalability and sustainability for digital health start-ups’ business models. The 
TABLE 1 CRITICAL LOGICS FOR (NON-)SCALABILITY AND (NON-)SUSTAINABILITY 
Sustainability 
sustainability for 
sustainability for 
Second, we incorporate the concepts of scalability and sustainability in designing business models.  
Scalability refers to the advantages of digitalization. Sustainability is not only seen from the 
the economic/ecological perspectives of sustainability but also the social dimension that relates to 
heterogeneity of sustainability business models. Long Range Planning, 51 (1), 158-183. 
Sustainability within the Next 
leveraging viable digital business models to achieve social sustainability. Our research builds 
primarily on the business models for sustainability research stream (i.e., Boons and Lüdeke-
for sustainability, mainly by focusing on the under-researched area of digital business models 
for Sustainability 
The track explores the topic of “Business model experimentation for sustainability”.  
Sustainability, Zero Waste, Innovation, Practices, Adoption 
Companies increasingly offer green products and services, and such sustainability innovations can 
changed when adopting a single sustainability innovation, and how does this unfold throughout the 
As reflected in Sustainability Development Goal 12, sustainability innovations involve both greener 
of sustainability-oriented goods and services. The object of adoption in these studies is sustainable 
sustainability, consumption, and marketing. Journal of Business Research, 78, 69-80. 
Morone, P., & Navia, R. (2016). New consumption and production models for a circular economy. Waste 
Schaltegger, S., & Wagner, M. (2011). Sustainable entrepreneurship and sustainability 
Varadarajan, R. (2017). Innovating for sustainability: a framework for sustainable innovations 
and sustainability. Packaging Technology and Science, 26(4), 229-248. 
In the context of socio-technical transitions to sustainability and, more precisely, under the lens of 
Even if BMI for mobility can deliver, in some cases, sustainability and contribute to transitions when 
Köhler, J. et al. (2019) ‘An agenda for sustainability transitions research: State of the art and future directions’, 
Sustainable? A Literature Review and Analysis’, Sustainability (Switzerland), 11(6), pp. 1–18. doi: 
to a sustainability-oriented BM often end up running several BMs in parallel, exploiting existing 
less about how this process unfolds in the particular context of sustainability (Dentchev et al., 2018).  
activities, without particular attention to sustainability. While BMs are commonly understood as 
2010), sustainability-oriented BMs offer certain distinction, incorporating environmental, social, 
Business model, Sustainability, Business model portfolio, Ambidexterity, Experimentation 
Applied Sciences, Bergen, Norway; 2Maastricht Sustainability Institute 
While firms increasingly recognize the need to implement sustainability improvements, they often 
struggle to meet sustainability targets (Geissdoerfer et al., 2018). Radical innovation at the level of 
sustainability goals  (Rashid et al., 2013). Traditional business model innovation — the act of 
number of tangible firm- and sustainability-focused benefits (Geissdoerfer et al., 2018; Bocken & 
and address long-term sustainability challenges (Bocken & Geradts, 2020; Foss & Saebi, 2017; 
However, despite the purported benefits of SBMI and its importance for meeting sustainability 
the Sectoral and Organizational Levels - Business Model Experimentation for Sustainability. It 
model innovation tools. Sustainability. 11 (8), 2210. https://doi.org/10.3390/su11082210. 
Nidumolu, R., Prahalad, C. K., Rangaswami, M. R. (2009) Why sustainability is now the key driver of innovation. 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E.G. (2012) Business cases for sustainability: The role of business 
model innovation for corporate sustainability. International Journal of Innovation and Sustainable 
in sustainability, there are two emerging research streams: the paradox theory perspective and the 
incubators with a focus on sustainability and societal impact. With this approach, we aim to obtain 
in the context of sustainability over time. Combining these streams will add to both by developing 
context of sustainability. Finally, we respond to the call for research on how impact entrepreneurs 
De Angelis, R. (2021) Circular economy and paradox theory: A business model perspective. Journal of Cleaner 
Gao, J. & Bansal, P. (2013) Instrumental and integrative logics in business sustainability. Journal of Business 
George, G., Merrill, R.K. & Schillebeeckx, S.J.D. (2021) Digital sustainability and entrepreneurship: How digital 
Hahn, T., Figge, F., Pinkse, J. & Preuss, L. (2018) A paradox perspective on corporate sustainability: Descriptive, 
of the triple bottom line: A paradox theory approach to sustainability management. Journal of Public 
Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Hansen, E.G. (2016) Business models for sustainability: A co-evolutionary 
Circular Economy – Business model 
Circular business models (CBM). Beside digital technologies, they are seen as a fundamental 
cornerstone to effectively operationalize sustainability in daily business practices. Advocates 
greater attention in sustainability-oriented management and organizational research to explore 
business in sustainability transitions.   
Circular Economy, circular business models, experiments, transition conflicts, business model 
Bocken, N., Weissbrod, I. & Antikainen, M. (2021). Business experimentation for sustainability: emerging 
(2021). Circular Economy Initiative Deutschland – Circular business models: Overcoming Barriers, 
Hopkinson, P., Zils, M., Hawkins, P., & Roper, S. (2018). Managing a complex global circular economy business 
sustainability-oriented BMs via corporate entrepreneurship. A focus query is: How do organisations 
(Bojovic, Genet and Sabatier, 2018; e.g., Aagaard, Saari and Mäkinen, 2021) and circular economy 
(OEMs). Focus is on emergence of sustainability-oriented BMs via forms of corporate 
experimentation as teams pursue sustainability-oriented BMs within an enfolding organization. 
Geissdoerfer, M. et al. (2020) ‘Circular business models: A review’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 277, p. 
Lahti, T., Wincent, J. and Parida, V. (2018) ‘A Definition and Theoretical Review of the Circular Economy, Value 
in the Future?’, Sustainability, 10(8), p. 2799. doi:10.3390/su10082799. 
Experimentation for Sustainability 
composition of the business model, and in regards to sustainability, it relates to the social, 
socially or environmentally oriented ethos is aligned with the long-term sustainability trend in the 
a sustainability-oriented ethos, and the potential business model adaptation outcomes for new 
Business Model Experimentation, Business Model Adaptation, New Ventures, Sustainability, Covid-
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”. Organization & 
about the key-role of Industry 4.0, the so-called 4th Industrial revolution, as enabler of sustainability 
2017), especially boosting Circular Economy practices (Di Maria, De Marchi, Galeazzo, 2022), in a 
the way to environmental sustainability for manufacturers is still an open experimental path (Bauer 
sustainability business models (Liu et al., 2021): the steel sector. Steel industries represent the 
in the opportunities given by environmental sustainability, with the experimentation of 
was the first among competitors to voluntarily commit to sustainability reports since 2004. Scrap, 
company business model from the very beginning to sustainability. We employed exploratory semi-
were selected based on their level of maturity for Industry 4.0 and sustainability initiatives. We 
business models, especially regarding Circular Economy and democratization strategies. IOT, 
machine learning and Big Data analysis support environmental sustainability in energy efficiency, 
materials in an optic of Circular Economy. A constant element in the realization of environmental 
sustainability is experimentation, not only in the employ of prototypal technologies (with no certain 
both Industry 4.0 and sustainability. Often these new collaborative networks are generated through 
projects. Industry 4.0 and sustainability are opening steel industries to new possible business 
organizational and technological path to environmental sustainability for energy intensive 
Industry 4.0 and sustainability for energy intensive manufacturers. Further research should go 
Industry 4.0, sustainable business models, collaborative experimentation, circular economy, 
Industry 4.0, Servitization, and Circular Economy: A Systematic Literature Review. Sustainability. 13. 
De Marchi, V., and E. Di Maria (2020). Achieving Circular Economy Via The Adoption Of Industry 4.0 
Di Maria, E., De Marchi, V.,  Galeazzo, A. (2022). Industry 4.0 technologies and circular economy: The 
model innovation: A way for incumbents to navigate sustainability transitions? Technovation 108. 
Gabriel, M., and E. Pessel (2016). Industry 4.0 and sustainability impacts: Critical discussion of sustainability 
Inigo, E.A., Albareda, L., and P. Ritala. (2017). Business model innovation for sustainability: exploring 
The main goal of this research is to provide empirical data how sustainability entrepreneurs 
of business as lever for change through experimentation in sustainability transitions remains 
dynamic capabilities applied by sustainability entrepreneurs, when experimenting with innovative 
business models for sustainability (Bocken et. al. 2021). 
explore the following questions: What are the main challenges and opportunities for sustainability 
two years of business model experimentation for sustainability. The author aims to build on 
previous research on business models for sustainability and a study by Sarkis (2020) that reported 
further supply chain sustainability because it fosters local markets, build community trust, reduces 
model innovation for sustainability transitions, and identifies key enablers, main challenges, and 
Sustainable consumption, Zero Waste stores, sustainability entrepreneurs, business models for 
sustainability, Covid-19 pandemic 
Bocken, N., Weissbrod, I. and M. Antikainenet (2021). Business experimentation for sustainability: Emerging 
Sustainability: Science, Practice and Policy, 16:1, 1-3, DOI: 10.1080/15487733.2020.1740472  
Petro, G. (2021). Generation Z is emerging as the sustainability generation. Forbes. April 30. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/gregpetro/2021/04/30/gen-z-is-emerging-as-the-sustainability-
Sarkis, J. (2020). Supply-chain sustainability: learning from the Covid-19 pandemic, International Journal of 
Circular Business Models with Game-
As a response to growing concerns for the unsustainability of our modern society, Circular Economy 
be used to facilitate experimentation with circular business models, especially in the development 
Innovation Tools. Sustainability, 11(8), 2210. 
Froehlich, J. (2015) Gamifying Green: Gamification and Environmental Sustainability. In: Walz, S. P., 
Hankammer, S., Brenk, S., Fabry, H., Nordemann, A. & Piller, F.T. (2019) Towards circular business models: 
Design. Sustainability, 13, 5397.  
sustainable consumption in the circular economy: An expert study. Journal of Cleaner Production, 
Albareda, L. & Verburg. R. (eds.) Innovation for Sustainability: Business Transformations Towards a 
from use of a serious game for Circular Economy education. Resources, Conservation and Recycling, 
2021), resources (Bicen and Johnson, 2015; Halme and Korpela, 2014; Mezger, 2014), sustainability 
model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for creation of sustainable 
Hall, J., & Wagner, M. (2012). Integrating sustainability into firms' processes: Performance effects and the 
Harrigan, K. R., & DiGuardo, M. C. (2017). Sustainability of patent-based competitive advantage in the US 
Sustainability problems, and thus the SDGs, are complex and systematic, meaning that together 
Hoffman, A. J. (2018) The next phase of business sustainability. SSRN Electronic Journal. Available from: 
Sustainability science. 13(2), 531–548. doi:10.1007/s11625-017-0470-0. 
through Sustainability for Financial 
deliver lasting impacts. Following the sustainability driven change, innovative financial 
to start from the bottom up with the small businesses’ financial sustainability. 
integrated report, sustainability report, the Universal Standards - Global Report Initiative (GRI) or 
sustainability and reshape the business ecosystem by encourage the social responsibility of firm. 
Biswas, P. K., Mansi, M., & Pandey, R. (2018). Board composition, sustainability committee and corporate 
quality on sustainability information disclosure. Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental 
Michelon, G., & Parbonetti, A. (2012). The effect of corporate governance on sustainability disclosure. 
and Sustainability Issues, 7(1), 553–573. 
Environmental Sustainability: The Moderating Role of the National Institutional Context. Corporate 
an even bigger crisis evolving; a sustainability crisis that also needs to be tackled. Increasing 
sustainability pressures warrant a better understanding of the impact of companies’ BMI through 
for recovery but also allowing for continued progress towards sustainability.  
Although Frugal innovations do not all have an inherent sustainability impact (Rosca, 2017). The 
design if they are to deliver aspired sustainability impacts (Bocken et al., 2019). One reason for 
“sustainability-oriented innovation” and is specifically aimed at sustainability tool developers. 
categorisation of these innovation based on frugality, sustainability, and realised sales: 
improvements in future iterations and increasing the sustainability impact. The latter could be 
in times of crises, is foremost (Pisoni et al., 2018). Therefore, sustainability objectives were not 
Although, sustainability had not been included as a topic, it was still surprising to discover that six 
Also sustainability could be addressed more prominently during the workshop routine. One of the 
put sustainability in the forefront of their mind. 
Arnold, M. G. . (2018) Sustainability value creation in frugal contexts to foster Sustainable Development Goals. 
innovation tools. Sustainability, 11(8), 2210. 
Logic. Sustainability, 13(5), 2626. 
model innovation. In: Kopnina, H. Circular Economy: Challenges and Opportunities for Ethical and 
Pattern Taxonomy – 45 Patterns to Support Sustainability-Oriented Business Model Innovation. 
sustainability entrepreneurship literature and future research directions”, Journal of Cleaner 
Hart, S.L. & Milstein. M.B, (1999) Global Sustainability and the Creative Destruction of Industries, MIT Sloan 
Nave, A., & Franco, M. (2019) University-Firm cooperation as a way to promote sustainability practices: A 
Schaltegger, S. & Wagner, M. (2008) Types of sustainable entrepreneurship and conditions for sustainability 
1Maastricht Sustainability Institute, School of Business and Economics, 
implemented with the aim of sustainability indeed support reduced resource use rather than 
into the circular economy (Velenturf & Purnell, 2021), and research on sufficiency growing 
into full sustainability. Tools are used in sustainable business model innovation to “support 
businesses and an assessment of the viability, desirability, feasibility and sustainability of Business 
Albert, M. (2019) Sustainable frugal innovation - The connection between frugal innovation and sustainability. 
business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production, 65, 42-56. 
Innovation Tools. Sustainability, 11. 
Luedeke-Freund, F., Gold, S. & Bocken, N. M. P. (2019) A Review and Typology of Circular Economy Business 
Pieroni, M. P. P., McAloone, T. C. & Pigosso, D. C. A. (2019) Business model innovation for circular economy 
and sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of Cleaner Production, 215, 198-216. 
sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production, 293. 
V., Reyers, B. & Sorlin, S. (2015) Sustainability. Planetary boundaries: guiding human development 
Velenturf, A. P. M. & Purnell, P. (2021) Principles for a sustainable circular economy. Sustainable Production 
driver of the transition to a Circular Economy (CE). We do so by examining whether firms deploying 
Circular economy, Innovation, Business Model, Chemistry sector 
Digitization and sustainability require new business models and problem-solving strategies concerning 
the context of sustainability, and especially within social sustainability discussion, new business models 
– e.g. circular business models – are a new focus of research (Walker, Opferkuch, Roos Lindgreen, 
dimensions within circular business models – among others. Reasons for this are sought in their 
sustainability of circular economy practices: Industry perspectives from Italy and the Netherlands, 
the carbon neutral delivery methodology and circular economy assumptions throughout the green 
economy to the circular economy (Manninen et al., 2018). In order to achieve this, so-called open 
digital circular economy will emerge. The result of this approach will be the creation of a more resilient, 
“cradle to cradle” logic embedded in the circular economy concept. It has a resultant nature based 
57. Heat recovery as part of the circular economy can also be used in energy clusters. 
and Legitimation strategies of sustainability-oriented firms. European Management Journal. 39(6), 720-730. 
Jabłoński, A. (2016) Scalability of Sustainable Business Models in Hybrid Organizations, Sustainability. 8(3), 194. 
Jabłoński, A. & Jabłoński, M. (2016) Research on Business Models in their Life Cycle, Sustainability. 8(5), 430. 
Manninen, K., Koskela, S., Antikainen, R., N., Bocken, Dahlbo, H. & Aminoff, A. (2018) To circular economy business 
for climate-smart value creation. Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability. 42, 76-81. 
Tauscher, K. & Abdelkafi, N. (2018) Scalability and robustness of business models for sustainability: A simulation 
Service Design as a Sustainability 
+ Sustainability assessment was done as a part of Aalto Open University 
embrace a circular economy and improve existing circular business models (CBMs). Due to their novelty, 
CBMs have been critiqued concerning their sustainability input at the company level. This paper 
contributes to the conference theme and session by assessing existing CBMs' sustainability using 
alternative sustainability assessment approach service design (SD) in three areas: innovation, which is 
crucial for sustainable business development enabling greater sustainability of CBMs; sustainable 
customer experiences on a human level allowing progressive organisational sustainability, and 
transparency in companies’ internal and external processes indicating high sustainability processes area. 
are CBMs across different industries when adopting SD as a sustainability assessment approach? The 
revealed high sustainability performance in groundbreaking technological innovation (n=8) reinforced 
with innovative CBM (n=6) and limited sustainability performance in all other areas: limited customer-
demonstrates promising results when adopting SD as a sustainability assessment approach; however, the 
circular business models, service design, sustainability assessment, transparency, business innovation  
principle requires the transition toward circular business models (CBMs), which have been in the Nordic 
countries since 2015 (Kiørboe, 2015). A circular economy (CE) breaks with the linear use of virgin material 
Many definitions of ‘sustainability assessment’ exist depending on the assessment process, subject of 
2001) and those that propose alternative concepts definitions of sustainability assessment titled 
‘assessment for sustainability ’ (Pope, Annandale & Morrison-Saunders, 2004). According to Bond, 
Morrison-Saunders & Pope (2012), a present framing of an impact assessment of sustainability 
of decision-making, profoundly diverse in its form. Bond et al. (2012) believe that sustainability 
Verheem’s (2002) definition of sustainability assessment stating, “The aim of sustainability assessment is 
this definition is generic allows the development of no standard sustainability assessment.  
The author identified constructive critiques concerning CBMs’ sustainability in BM literature. Despite the 
companies in implementing their sustainability initiatives more concretely. The evidence of CBMs’ 
on three CBMs’ sustainability performance limitations extensively exposed in the SBMs’ academic 
long term sustainability requesting more sustainable business offerings (Bocken, Short, Rana & Evans, 
2) Customer experiences are increasing sustainability in CBMs: Two years after the Paris agreement, Jain, 
experiences concerning social issues, quality of life and sustainability. Signori, Gozzo, Flint, Milfeld, & 
Satinover-Nichols (2019) stated a new connection emerging between sustainability and customer 
companies with CBM have limited transitions towards sustainability, omitting user practices, market 
not been covered yet, concerning the CBMs' sustainability performance in innovation for sustainable 
development, customer experiences in increasing sustainability and CBM’s transparency of service life 
cycle, supply and value chain and waste management adopting SD as a sustainability assessment 
How sustainable are CBMs across different industries when adopting SD as a sustainability assessment 
sustainability assessment approach. With the pilot, the author demonstrates the possibility of 
sustainability assessment of the CBMs with SD in three areas: CBMs’ innovation, customer experiences 
CBMs sustainability. Following the methodological part of the pilot study presents the research design, 
1.1 Circular business models  
distinguishes between five circular business models: 1) circular supply chain models, which utilise in their 
Figure 1. Classification of circular business models. Image source Sitra et al. (2019).   
sustainability-oriented business model assessment (SUST-BMA).  
and environmental sustainability (Sierra-Pérez, 2021).  
The pilot sustainability assessment process lasted from April to June 2020 and from January to March 
The case companies’ CBMs sustainability assessment was conducted during three online SD courses for 
The first sustainability assessment part aimed to understand the company's CBM and related 
(Brand & Rocchi, 2011). Participants reported their CBM sustainability assessment findings in weekly blog 
cases data from companies’ websites, online sustainability reports, blog posts and social media. Some 
This section reports results on three CBMs’ sustainability performance themes exposed in the SBMs’ 
1. CBMs innovativeness is critical for higher sustainability performance (Schaltegger et al., 2012); 
innovation (Lee et al., 2021). Signori et al. 2019 claim that sustainability can be improved through 
sustainability in their SBM. SD can improve existing and innovate services, which are more resourceful 
2. Customer experiences are crucial for increasing sustainability in CBMs (Signori et al., 2019). SD’s 
based on economic, social and environmental sustainability (Signori et al.2019). 
and, therefore, a limited level of sustainability. 
Furthermore, these themes provide a structure for companies’ CBMs’ sustainability assessment, 
and provided neutral or positive statements when assessing CBMs’ sustainability. Each unique theme is 
definition of when it is beneficial for sustainability performance:    
enabling companies to develop unique CBMs and service offerings, which have higher sustainability 
sustainability. Furthermore, Jiang et al. (2020) findings indicate that sustainable practices improve 
sustainability aspect of C1’s services in a broader context is barely acknowledged.    
3) Limited marketing and communication companies’ sustainability know-how was reported in three 
to Viciunaite & Alfnes (2020), if sustainable companies incorporate sustainability information about their 
have to change their communication towards sustainability and provide some new opportunities through 
“How C12 might bring sustainability message across to the audience? For a company related to waste 
management, it is crucial to be transparent and publicly have the essential information on sustainability, 
cycle processes concerning sustainability assessment within the current framework. They developed a life 
Viciunaite & Alfnes (2020) emphasise that as the sustainability of some BM elements is often not seen by 
(batteries) value chains from a sustainability and transparency perspective to strive for circularity and 
The paper contributes to the conference theme and session by utilising SD as an alternative sustainability 
assessment approach to investigate how sustainable are pertinent CBMs in innovation, sustainability of 
management in CBMs. Utilising SD as a sustainability approach in these areas can offer a complete picture 
of elements connecting to the actual sustainability performance of CBMs through:   
1. Innovation is crucial for sustainable organisational development and, therefore, higher sustainability of 
organisational sustainability and  
3. Transparent companies’ internal and external processes indicate high organisational sustainability.   
offerings with higher sustainability performance. These companies combine technological innovation with 
BM innovation to achieve high sustainability performance.  
have limited transitions toward sustainability. Last, companies do not fully communicate sustainable 
The research gap concerned the CBMs' sustainability assessment in CBMs innovation increasing 
sustainability, sustainable customer experiences and CBM’s transparency of service life cycle, supply and 
approach, particularly in listed areas.  Concerning adopting SD as a sustainability assessment tool, 
be established that SD is a relevant sustainability assessment tool, particularly in assessing sustainability 
the CBMs' sustainability assessment, utilising the SD approach in innovation being crucial for sustainable 
business development enabling greater sustainability of CBMs; in sustainable customer experiences level, 
allowing progressive organisational sustainability, and transparency in companies’ internal and external 
processes indicate high sustainability processes area. These themes were selected because of SBMs’ 
academic literature critics concerning CBMs’ limited sustainability performance and because they provide 
a holistic structure for sustainability assessment in the CBMs’ innovation; customers, employees and 
aspects of companies' CBMs’ when utilising SD as a sustainability assessment approach.  
sustainability assessment approach, the short answer would be partly. When assessing sustainability with 
sustainability development and, therefore, lower sustainability performance (see Figure 4).    
Figure 4: Diagram visualises results from the pilot study assessing sustainability in pertinent CBMs when 
appropriateness as a sustainability assessment tool in CBMs, which has not been done before, by 
critique of the CBMs’ sustainability, supported by relevant qualitative research results from the pilot 
their field; and third, the cases sample was too small to make sustainability comparisons between 
Technology into a Circular Supply Chain to Build Circular Business Models: A State-of-the-Art Systematic 
Review. Sustainability, 13(16), p.8997. Available from: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13168997 [Acessed 8th of 
- Adams, R., Jeanrenaud, S., Bessant, J., Denyer, D. & Overy, P. (2016) Sustainability‐oriented innovation: A 
- Baumgartner, R.J. & Rauter, R. (2017) Strategic perspectives of corporate sustainability management to develop a 
- Bond, A., Morrison-Saunders, A. and Pope, J., (2012) Sustainability assessment: the state of the art. Impact 
- Devuyst, D., (1999) Sustainability assessment: the application of a methodological framework. Journal of 
- Devuyst, D., (2001) Introduction to sustainability assessment at the local level. In How green is the city? 1-36. 
- Desing, H., Brunner, D., Takacs, F., Nahrath, S., Frankenberger, K. & Hischier, R. (2020) A circular economy within 
- Enkvist, P-A. & Klevnäs, P. (2018) The Circular Economy a Powerful Force for Climate Mitigation Transformative 
a value stream perspective of circular business models. Resources, conservation and recycling, 162, 
In Innovation for Sustainability 77-95. In N. Bocken et al. (eds.), Innovation for Sustainability, Palgrave 
- Halla, P., Binder, C.R., Wyss, R. and Massaro, E., 2020. Sustainability assessment: introduction and 
framework. Sustainability assessment of urban systems. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp.7-29.  
- Hofmann, F. (2019) Circular business models: business approach as driver or obstructer of sustainability 
- Harmaala, Minna-Maari (2021) Transition from linear to circular business models with service design methodology 
- Kennedy, S. & Bocken, N. (2020) Innovating business models for sustainability: An essential practice for responsible 
- Kiørboe, N. (2015) Moving Towards a Circular Economy: Successful Nordic Business Models, Policy Brief. Nordic 
ecosystems. Sustainability, 12(1), 417. Available from: https://doi.org/10.3390/su12010417 [Acessed 11th 
- Lacy, P. & Rutqvist, J. (2016) Waste to wealth: The circular economy advantage. Springer. 
performance. Sustainability, 13(1), 4. Available from: https://doi.org/10.3390/su13010004 [Acessed 1st of 
- Lüdeke-Freund, F., Freudenreich, B., Schaltegger, S., Saviuc, I. & Stock, M. (2017) Sustainability-oriented business 
sustainability, 
- Pope, J., Annandale, D. and Morrison-Saunders, A., 2004. Conceptualising sustainability assessment. Environmental 
models: Challenges, key issues and future research opportunities. In Innovation for sustainability pp. 253-
269. In N. Bocken et al. (eds.), Innovation for Sustainability, Palgrave Studies in Sustainable Business In 
- Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business models for sustainability: Origins, present 
- Schaltegger, S., Lüdeke-Freund, F. and Hansen, E.G., (2012) Business cases for sustainability: the role of business 
model innovation for corporate sustainability. International journal of innovation and sustainable 
12/publication/256013169_Business_Cases_for_Sustainability_The_Role_of_Business_Model_Innovation
_for_Corporate_Sustainability/links/53cf7b530cf25dc05cfaf95c/Business-Cases-for-Sustainability-The-
Role-of-Business-Model-Innovation-for-Corporate-Sustainability.pdf  [Acessed 2nd of April 2022]. 
- Sitra, Technology Industries of Finland and Accenture Strategy (2019) Circular economy business models for the 
- Sitra (2020) Most interesting companies in the circular economy in Finland 2.1. Available from: 
- Tukker, A. (2004) Eight types of product-service system: eight ways to sustainability? Experiences from 
- Vegter, D., van Hillegersberg, J. and Olthaar, M., (2020) Supply chains in circular business models: processes and 
- Verheem, R., (2002) Recommendations for sustainability assessment in the Netherlands. Commission for EIA. 
Experience. Sustainability, 14(6), p.3505. Available from: https://doi.org/10.3390/su14063505 [Accessed 
The debate on the impact of packaging logistics on sustainability has shifted towards a more holistic 
stream of circular supply chain management. Since how circular economy systems really work for firms 
analysis on how to implement and manage innovative projects to shift from linear to circular economy, 
Circular supply chain, Sustainability, Upcycling, Logistics Packaging, Packaging Logistics, Wooden Pallets 
perspective; sustainability-focused initiatives around logistics innovation and the need for change in the 
sustainability that works “toward a triple helix for value creation, a genetic code for tomorrow’s 
sustainability domain (Farooque et al., 2019; Genovese et al., 2017; Nasir et al., 2017); consequently, there 
upcycling solution referring to logistics, packaging and sustainability; section 3 describes the case study 
2. Logistics, packaging and sustainability 
The European Commission adopted the new Circular Economy Action Plan (CEAP) in March 2020, as one 
In the document “Circular economy action plan” packaging is placed among the “key product value 
The integration of Circular Economy into Supply Chain Management has been termed Circular supply 
manage innovative projects for sustainable packaging logistics to shift from linear to circular economy, 
sustainability in each of its three dimensions—economic, environmental, and social—simultaneously and 
The debate on the impact of packaging logistics on sustainability has shifted towards a more holistic 
stream of circular supply chain management. Since how circular economy systems really work for firms 
analysis on how to implement and manage innovative projects to shift from linear to circular economy, 
of three dimensions of sustainability—economic, environmental, and social— simultaneously and 
Aminoff, A. and Kettunen, O., 2016, April. Sustainable supply chain management in a circular economy—towards 
Berg, P., Feber, D., Granskog, A., Nordigarden, D. and Ponkshe, S., 2020. The drive toward sustainability in 
toward-sustainability-in-packaging-beyond-the-quick-wins). 
Bressanelli, G., Perona, M. and Saccani, N., 2019. Challenges in supply chain redesign for the Circular Economy: A 
De Angelis, R., Howard, M. and Miemczyk, J., 2018. Supply chain management and the circular economy: towards 
transition towards a circular economy: Evidence and some applications. Omega, 66, pp.344-357. 
Gnoni, M.G., Tornese, F., Thorn, B.K., Carrano, A.L. and Pazour, J.A., 2018. A measurement tool for circular economy 
circular economy: A review. Journal of cleaner production, 237, p.117582. 
Moula, M.M.E., Sorvari, J. and Oinas, P., 2017. Introduction: How can circular economy help to construct a more 
Silva, N. and Pålsson, H., 2021. Industrial packaging and its impact on sustainability and circular economy: A 
Transport Items: A Review Analysis on the Pallet Supply Chain. Sustainability, 13(22), p.12747. 
Weetman, C., 2016. A circular economy handbook for business and supply chains: Repair, remake, redesign, rethink. 
Ying, J., & Li-jun, Z. (2012). Study on green supply chain management based on circular economy. Physics 
matches sustainability: A bibliometric 
The paper’s goal is to understand how Sustainability’s topic is represented in Value Proposition Templates. 
Through a bibliometric analysis on Value Proposition Template and Sustainability, it’s noted that the 
The goal of this paper is to understand how sustainability is included into Value Proposition Template 
(VPT) papers. In this paper it will be studied how the role of sustainability is declined in VPT and the 
This paper will attempt to understand how sustainability changes everyday life, and how VPTs follow this 
wave and adapt to change by becoming sustainable. Sustainability is increasingly becoming a key part of 
sustainability in terms of developing Value Proposition (VP). Today, all companies are working on VP and 
therefore on templates, but how much is sustainability really explored in this context?  
Sustainability requires new sources and approaches to address VP (Pádua Pieroni, M., et al., 2018). 
interesting to analyze whether they take into account sustainability. 
Sustainability has become increasingly important over the last years, thanks to society's awareness of its 
the organization to achieve sustainability (Michelini, L., et al., 2012). Nowadays, many organizations 
The objective of this paper is to understand how sustainability is introduced in VPT topic. For this reason, 
sustainability. In particular, the goal is to understand how much the topic is existent, if there are authors 
from countries where the topic is more prevalent, if there is a specific moment in which sustainability has 
“How is sustainability’s topic declined in that of VPT? How much is the topic existent?” 
sustainability”? 
In order to analyze the literature on the topic of VPT and sustainability was produced to date, a 
proposition format”), and “sustainable” (or “sustainability”). To better explain the terms used in the first 
“sustainability”. It was selected to analyse the period 2001-2021 and to search only articles written in 
second, Query B, composed by the second analysis that contains sustainability keywords (90 papers). 
In order to understand how Sustainability’s topic is represented in VPTs it was conducted a quantitative 
and sustainability were used increasingly few years later. Recently, there were the keywords innovation, 
sustainable business and economics. In 2021, however, the keywords circular economy and strategic 
development, customer relationships, life cycle and sustainability appeared, and then more recently there 
were the themes of strategic approach, and circular economy.  
To understand how much Sustainability concept declined in VPTs designation and how they are related 
to Sustainability, a co-occurrence analysis based on all the keywords was conducted. The minimum 
To fully understand how many keywords within the papers correlate with VPTs and sustainability, among 
Sustainable Development. And after them, innovation and sustainability. 
about sustainability, innovation, strategic approach, circular economy and conceptual 
Sustainability’s matter is also presented in other clusters, in the red one and, to a marginal extent, in the 
sustainability circle is very connected with Business development keyword and with the innovation one. 
Sustainability is important in VPT and also in those topics where authors write about businesses without 
From a time point of view, sustainability topic (Query B) started growing in 2015, but had a significant 
compared to those that write on VPTs and sustainability.  
Moreover, concerning keyword connections, the authors who deal with VPTs, also deal with sustainability. 
Indeed, sustainability issue is strictly correlated with VPTs. Indeed, it’s presented in 3 out of 5 clusters. 
companies. For this reason, it’s important that sustainability is presented in VP. Therefore, sustainability 
sustainability to being presented in VPTs, because sustainability is increasingly developing both in the 
representation of Sustainability’s topic in VPTs is definitely a way to expand research in SBMs. 
It might be interesting to explore how commercial companies include sustainability in their VPTs. This can 
increasing importance of sustainability issue and implement into business strategies and tactics. 
businesses should use increasingly VPTs, and secondly, VPTs must include the sustainability criteria. 
Sustainability grows and managers should take into account synthesis tools for VPT. 
oriented to circular economy: A systematic review of value proposition design approaches. Journal of 
taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable 
Responsibility and Sustainability. A Bibliometric Analysis of Their Interrelations. Sustainability, 13(4), 1636.  
Schoolman, E. D., Guest, J. S., Bush, K. F., & Bell, A. R. (2012). How interdisciplinary is sustainability research? 
Analyzing the structure of an emerging scientific field. Sustainability Science, 7(1), 67-80. 
Tsalis, T. A., Malamateniou, K. E., Koulouriotis, D., & Nikolaou, I. E. (2020) New challenges for corporate sustainability 
Improve Total Sustainability 
sustainability" in its various forms. 
Stakeholder, Engagement, Satisfaction, Benefit Corporation, Sustainability/Productivity 
The need for sustainability is clear to everybody, but frequently there is some confusion about the 
meaning for sustainability. We do believe that sustainability is a multidimensional concept so that we 
need to identify the complex identity that we may call Total Sustainability. 
But if we want to be focus on Total Sustainability we need a new business model based on the cooperation 
1. Has Sustainability mono or multi dimensions? 
2. If it is a multidimensional concept, can we speak about Total Sustainability (TS)?   
3. How much important are the stakeholders in Total Sustainability (TS)? 
digital and global context, and taking into consideration the resulting need for a more sustainability-
Brand Purpose, Stakeholder Satisfaction and Total Sustainability 
Brand Purpose, Stakeholder Satisfaction and Total Sustainability 
a management properly oriented to promote a “better world” and, therefore, a “total sustainability” in 
is clear that sustainability must be multidimensional and related to the multiple aspects referred to above, 
including the economic one, in order to be able to speak of a true total sustainability (TS) related to brand 
overcoming, as a result, the concept of “sustainability” and “circularity” thanks to their ability to generate 
sustainability only if there is the contribution of all the stakeholders involved. 
the goal of Total Sustainability. 
e. activities to connect Sustainability to Good Management; 
The literature on sustainability transitions has highlighted the important role of government interventions 
Sustainability transitions, Business model adaptation, Transition policies, Policy mixes. 
In the existing body of the literature, green business models are often researched next to sustainability 
(Sommer, 2012, Pigosso et al., 2018, Pieroni et al., 2019, Løkke et al., 2020) and circular economy 
LCA, (7) Waste and waste construction, (8) Circular economy, (9) Business model construction, (10) Helix 
A Case Study for an Innovative Educational Concept to Prevent Big Ideas from Failure. Sustainability (Basel, 
Kopnina, H. (2019). Green-Washing or Best Case Practices? Using circular economy and Cradle to Cradle case studies 
Pieroni, M.P.P., McAloone, T.C., Pigosso, D.C.A. (2019). Business Model Innovation for Circular Economy and 
Sustainability: A Review of Approaches. Journal of Cleaner Production, 198-216. 
Industrial Symbiosis: Development of a Screening Tool. Sustainability, 1-27. 
Sommer, A. (2012). Managing Green Business Model Transformations. Luneburg, Germany: Centre for Sustainability 
sustainability (Lynch et al. 2020; Geels 2019; Nosratabadi et al. 2019; Zollo et al., 2013). Small and mid-
However, sustainability transitions face numerous challenges (Köhler et al. 2019; Nosratabadi et al. 2019; 
perspective analysis of sustainability transitions (Bidmon and Knab 2019; Köhler et al. 2019). Moreover, 
sustainability which presents new challenges for SMEs to innovate and change their existing business 
sustainability in their BM (Bocken and Gerardts, 2020; Bocken et al. 2014) and which challenges and 
Recently, BM for sustainability is receiving more attention from industry and academics (Pieroni et al., 
customer value and by contributing to the sustainability of the organization and society (Nosratabadi et 
al., 2016; Zollo et al., 2013). The study of the BM regarding sustainability is still in its early stages. 
Researchers generally regard BMI, whether concerned with sustainability or not, as critical to firm 
of the different internal and external factors to sustainability transitions (Hernández-Chea et al. 2021). 
sustainability in their BM is needed. Thus, this paper aims to study and evaluate the SMEs that respond 
the early phase of sustainability transition in their BM. The interview and workshop will include people 
who have different roles in the companies. We will analyze their BM, sustainability impact, and identify 
expected result include a conceptual framework that focus on sustainability transitions in SMEs from a 
Alonso-Martinez, D., De Marchi, V. & Di Maria, E. (2021) The sustainability performances of sustainable business 
business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production.  65, 42–56. 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Tiemann, I. (2018) Sustainability-oriented business model development: 
Geels, F.W. (2019) Socio-Technical Transitions to Sustainability: A Review of Criticisms and Elaborations of the Multi-
Level Perspective. Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability. 39, 187–201. 
Hernández-Chea, R., Jain, A., Bocken, N.M.P. & Gurtoo, A. (2021) The Business Model in Sustainability Transitions: A 
Conceptualization. Sustainability. 13, 5763 
Köhler, J., de Haan, F. & Holtz, G. (2018) Modelling Sustainability Transitions: An Assessment of Approaches and 
F., et al. (2019) An Agenda for Sustainability Transitions Research: State of the Art and Future Directions. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2010) Towards a Conceptual Framework of Business Models for Sustainability. In Knowledge 
Transition to a Bioeconomy: A Case Study from the Netherlands. Sustainability. 12 (8), 3179. 
Sustainable Business Models: A Review. Sustainability. 11, 1663. 
Pieroni, P. P. M., McAloone, C. T., & Pigosso, C. A. D. (2019) Business model innovation for circular economy and 
sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of Cleaner Production. 215, 198–216. 
Roome, N. & Louche, C. (2016) Journeying toward business models for sustainability: A conceptual model found 
Schaltegger, S. Hansen, E. G. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, present 
Sustainability Performance of Business 
Assessing and managing the sustainability performance of business models requires 
approaches) as well as tools and metrics (e.g. from fields such as sustainability reporting 
model and sustainability performance in new and convincing ways. 
Centre for Sustainability Management, Leuphana University Lüneburg 
business model’s sustainability performance. Conceptual propositions for value-based 
sustainability performance with the necessary depth. If the objective of SBMs is to contribute to 
sustainability transformations with the creation of stakeholder value, performance assessment 
assessment of business models’ sustainability performance. This objective is reflected in the 
sustainability performance? 
purposes such as meso-level or macro-level sustainability transformations of markets, industries or 
2022). The few authors proposing quantitative measures or measuring SBMs’ sustainability 
measures of stakeholder value. While the sustainability performance assessment literature 
notion of value affects the very understanding of sustainability performance itself. 
the sustainability performance of business models 
sustainability. If companies want to create progress on macro-level environmental and societal 
sustainability transformations. 
managers seeking to understand and improve the sustainability performance of their business 
models. Sustainability reporting standards, particularly the Integrated Reporting (IR) standard, are 
Abdelkafi, N. and Täuscher, K. (2016) ‘Business Models for Sustainability From a System Dynamics 
Alonso-Martinez, D., Marchi, V. de and Di Maria, E. (2021) ‘The sustainability performances of sustainable 
Bocken, N. et al. (2014) ‘A literature and practice review to develop sustainable business model archetypes’, 
Evans, S. et al. (2017) ‘Business Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a Unified Perspective for 
Models: Value Creation for Sustainability’, Journal of Business Ethics, 166, pp. 3–18. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. et al. (2017) ‘Sustainability-Oriented Business Model Assessment — A Conceptual 
Enterprise Sustainability. (Palgrave studies in democracy, innovation, and entrepreneurship for 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G. and Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) ‘Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, 
Silva, S., Nuzum, A.-K. and Schaltegger, S. (2019) ‘Stakeholder expectations on sustainability performance 
Stubbs, W. and Cocklin, C. (2008) ‘Conceptualizing a "Sustainability Business Model"’, Organization & 
Sustainability Implementation: A 
Given the relevance that the implementation of corporate sustainability has gained both from the 
corporate sustainability implementation, operationalizing the sustainability concept through four 
Corporate sustainability, sustainability implementation, indicators, multi-level scale. 
The concept of Corporate Sustainability (CS) has received growing attention from both academic 
less attention to the related aspect of Corporate Sustainability Performance Measurement (CSPM) 
standardized framework to measure CS, and often different terms are used, such as sustainability 
indicators (Hojnik et al., 2020; López-Arceiz, 2020; Rahdari & Rostamy, 2015), sustainability 
measurement (Asiaei et al., 2021; Antolín-Lòpez et al., 2016; Cagno et al., 2019), sustainability 
relevant perspective is that of measuring the degree to which sustainability is put into practice in 
businesses. This perspective is useful to assess the level of maturity in sustainability implementation 
act to promote sustainability based on the state of art of its implementation among local firms. 
different aspects of sustainability?” or “What is the level of sustainability implementation in my 
Some measures of sustainability implementation have been proposed in the Corporate Social 
the CSR/sustainability performances or indicators proposed in the academic literature and 
CSR/sustainability standards and guidelines available from professionals and the business world. 
a comprehensive measure of sustainability implementation for business, which encompasses the 
The aim of this research is to develop a multi-level scale of sustainability implementation, useful for 
to self-assess their sustainability status, and for researchers who need a more comprehensive scale 
based on both the consolidated literature and the most recognized sustainability standards. 
The literature on sustainability and CSR measurement is vast, and identifying relevant work is 
starting point of our work was the literature on CSR and sustainability scales, to define the higher-
order dimensions of sustainability, as well as the sustainability indicators literature, to enable the 
With respect to higher-order dimensions, the literature on CSR and sustainability scales has largely 
From the sustainability indicators side, certain studies have proposed lists of indicators based on 
review of the literature or sustainability standards or a combination of these two sources. Antolín-
Cagno et al. (2019) develop three Industrial Sustainability Performance Measurement Systems 
sustainability. 
sustainability at the firm level, transcending the current literature and relying exclusively on the 
CSR and corporate sustainability were also taken into consideration to define the items and 
assessment of sustainability based on different dimensions and are often applied by small and 
scale proposal, as they are the most relevant sustainability standards and present a large and 
precisely, the proposed scale is aimed at measuring the level of implementation of sustainability 
the relevant sustainability concerns in business operations (Lechuga Sancho et al., 2021). Following 
this premise, the first step of our analysis was focused on the definition of the relevant sustainability 
sustainability; and to the governance issue, whose relevance is also confirmed by the standards, 
sustainability dimensions. For example, should the anti-corruption construct be treated as a 
objective of our study is to measure the level of implementation of sustainability practices, we 
PE13: Product sustainability, health, and safety 
GOV2: Sustainability governance 
to measure sustainability dimensions); content validity (whether all important aspects of the 
previous work on the derivation of sustainability scales. In detail, the proposed scale is 
sustainability dimensions, constructs, and items. 
Further, the work diverges from previous studies focused on sustainability indicators because it 
of sustainability practices, rather than the level of sustainability performance. 
Amini, M., & Bienstock, C. C. (2014) Corporate sustainability: An integrative definition and framework to 
Antolín-López, R., Delgado-Ceballos, J., & Montiel, I. (2016) Deconstructing corporate sustainability: A 
Asiaei, K., Bontis, N., Barani, O., & Jusoh, R. (2021) Corporate social responsibility and sustainability 
Cagno, E., Neri, A., Howard, M., Brenna, G., & Trianni, A. (2019) Industrial sustainability performance 
Cantele, S., & Zardini, A. (2018) Is sustainability a competitive advantage for small businesses? An empirical 
analysis of possible mediators in the sustainability–financial performance relationship. Journal of 
De Olde, E. M., Bokkers, E. A., & de Boer, I. J. (2017) The choice of the sustainability assessment tool matters: 
Dyllick, T., & Hockerts, K. (2002) Beyond the business case for corporate sustainability. Business Strategy & 
business-as-usual to true business sustainability. Organization & Environment. 29 (2), 156–174. 
Hojnik, J., Biloslavo, R., Cicero, L., & Cagnina, M. R. (2020) Sustainability indicators for the yachting industry: 
Lankoski, L. (2016) Alternative conceptions of sustainability in a business context. Journal of Cleaner 
López‐Arceiz, F. J., Del Río, C., & Bellostas, A. J. (2020) Sustainability performance indicators: Definition, 
corporate sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. 106, 430–444. 
Rahdari, A. H., & Rostamy, A. A. A. (2015) Designing a general set of sustainability indicators at the corporate 
Silva, S., Nuzum, A. K., & Schaltegger, S. (2019) Stakeholder expectations on sustainability performance 
performance (Zott & Amit, 2007, 2008). More specifically, the sustainability performance of 
sustainability performance of companies (Florin & Schmidt, 2011; Mehera & Ordonez‐Ponce, 2021; 
to assess and measure the sustainability performance of companies. 
the amount of shared value created and the resulting sustainability performance achieved. Thus, 
to create shared value. In addition, Enel monitors its sustainability performance with specific KPIs, 
28 https://www.enel.cl/en/sustainability/creating-shared-value/creating-shared-value.html  
feasibility maps of the sustainability practices for the three analysed plants; (3) the KPIs concerning 
the sustainability performance of the plants. 
KPIs on sustainability 
KPIs on sustainability 
KPIs on sustainability 
The preliminary results show how the environmental, social and economic data on sustainability 
Enel uses a shared value creation model that enables the planification of sustainability practices and the 
model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for creation of sustainable 
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008). Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”. Organization & 
systems to embed sustainability in 
sustainability, management control systems, corporate culture 
Both sustainability and Management Control Systems (MCS) are topics that have been extensively 
discussed in the literature for quite some time. However, MCS focusing on sustainability are often 
regarding the design of MCS aimed at sustainability (Arjaliès, Mundy, 2013, Lueg, Radlach, 2016, 
perspectives of diverse companies that focus on sustainability.  
This need for further empirical research on the topic of MCS and sustainability led us to pose the 
Our findings show that sustainability is a crucial element in the organization's culture of a 
sustainable business model and that MCS entail essential tools to embed sustainability in the 
pillars of sustainability (Carroll, 1979, Elkington, 1994). 
The presence of a sustainability manager  
The integrated report, which shows that sustainability plays a vital role in the company's 
High ranking on Sustainability indices (e.g., the Dow Jones Sustainability Index) 
Winning sustainability prizes/sustainability awards.  
focuses on multiple value creation. Greenwashing is a common practice regarding sustainability  
focus regarding sustainability. 
complete set of MC practices regarding sustainability, thus mirroring the organization’s control 
recognized different patterns regarding embedding sustainability in the cultures of Type A and Type 
direction and enhance the process of embedding sustainability in the culture. These MCS focus on 
controls and sustainability (Guenther, Endrikat & Guenther, 2016). The main focus of most studies 
sustainability are designed to embed sustainability in the corporate culture and explains how these 
process towards sustainability, called Type B companies. For Type A companies, social and technical 
direction and enhance the process of embedding sustainability in the culture. These MCS focus on 
the sustainability agenda and upcoming legal requirements. In particular, by highlighting the 
control elements are needed to deploy a sustainability strategy. In this respect, our in-depth 
practitioners faced with the challenge to design a MCS focusing on sustainability. 
To conclude, this study created some fruitful insights in the complexities of MCS for sustainability 
Boiral, O. 2013, "Sustainability reports as simulacra? A counter-account of A and A GRI reports", Accounting, 
Ditillo, A. & Lisi, I.E. 2016, "Exploring sustainability control systems' integration: The relevance of sustainability 
integration of strategy and sustainability", Management Accounting Research, vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 205-
Jonker, J. & Faber, N. 2021, Organizing for Sustainability: A Guide to Developing New Business Models, 
Joshi, S. & Li, Y. 2016, "What is corporate sustainability and how do firms practice it? A management 
Ligonie, M. 2021, "Sharing sustainability through sustainability control activities. A practice-based analysis", 
Maas, K., Schaltegger, S. & Crutzen, N. 2016, "Integrating corporate sustainability assessment, management 
organisational change towards sustainability", Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal, vol. 32, 
Traxler, A.A., Schrack, D. & Greiling, D. 2020, "Sustainability reporting and management control–A systematic 
circular business models  
1Maastricht Sustainability Institute, School of Business and Economics, 
Circular business models offer a promising way to transition from the current take-make-waste, 
Failing to create net positive environmental impacts from circular business models can inhibit 
companies’ progress towards achieving their sustainability targets. Further, they can risk falling 
new circular business models.  
business models and avoid unintended consequences. Circular business models are not yet 
environmental impact is similar when designing new circular business models (Mont, 2002, 2004; 
business models. The target group is business/product designers, sustainability managers, 
Business managers and innovators that experiment with circular business models, are typically 
sustainable outcomes as they trial new circular business models. This tool combines circular 
A growing number of companies are experimenting with circular business models (Bocken, 2021), 
Circular Economy, Circular Business Models, Environmental Impact, Business Model 
Sustainability, 11(8), p. 2210. doi:10.3390/su11082210. 
Bocken, N. (2021) ‘Circular Business Models – mapping experimentation in multinational firms.pdf’, 
in Circular Economy Challenges and Opportunities for Ethical and Sustainable Business. 
Bocken, N., Ritala, P. and Huotari, P. (2017) ‘The Circular Economy: Exploring the Introduction of 
the Concept Among S&P 500 Firms: The Circular Economy: Exploring the Introduction of 
Sustainability’, in Setchi, R. et al. (eds) Sustainable Design and Manufacturing 2016. Cham: 
environmental impacts when experimenting with circular business models?’, Sustainable 
Johnson, E. and Plepys, A. (2021) ‘Product-Service Systems and Sustainability: Analysing the 
Sustainability, 
economy and sustainability: A review of approaches’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 215, 
Tukker, A. (2004) ‘Eight types of product–service system: eight ways to sustainability? Experiences 
Tukker, A. (2015) ‘Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy – a review’, Journal 
Warmington-Lundström, J. and Laurenti, R. (2020) ‘Reviewing circular economy rebound effects: 
Zink, T. and Geyer, R. (2017) ‘Circular Economy Rebound’, Journal of Industrial Ecology, 21(3), pp. 
sustainability performance.  
While there is no single, common definition of sustainability (Süß, Höse and Götze, 2021), the 
understanding of sustainability in the SBM discourse is generally informed by the Brundtland 
result is a somewhat ambiguous framing of sustainability, which allows companies to have different 
the sustainability of business models and their overall impact. As Bradley et al.’s (2020) review of 
sustainability means, including social and environmental goals and impacts.  
evident that concerns over climate are generating sharp critique of the pursuit of sustainability 
efforts on sustainability, especially in the context of addressing climate change. Doing so depends, 
among other things, on contextualizing sustainability within thresholds (Baue, 2019). According to 
to ensure that an SBM is in line with strong sustainability principles. 
make a substantial contribution but also activities that enable other sustainability activities. 
to ensure a holistic approach to sustainability, emphasizing the urgency of addressing climate 
is very detailed and comprehensive, with clear representations of the different sustainability 
it does not provide a mechanism to assess the sustainability performance of the different patterns 
levels defined in the model, and providing it with a sustainability rating accordingly (e.g., “very high” 
Green taxonomy, social taxonomy, sustainable business model, sustainability, climate change.  
sustainability of business models’, Sustainable Production and Consumption, 21, pp. 57–77. 
Brozovic, D. (2020) ‘Business model based on strong sustainability: Insights from an empirical 
Godelnik, R. (2021) Rethinking Corporate Sustainability in the Era of Climate Crisis: A Strategic 
Kishan, S. (2021) Corporate Climate Efforts Lack Impact, Say Former Sustainability Executives, 
Literature’, Sustainability, 12(16). doi: 10.3390/su12166460. 
support sustainability-oriented business model innovation’, Sustainable Production and 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E. G. and Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) ‘Business Models for Sustainability: 
Süß, A., Höse, K. and Götze, U. (2021) ‘Sustainability-Oriented Business Model Evaluation—A 
Literature Review’, Sustainability, 13(19). doi: 10.3390/su131910908. 
Sustainability 
e.g., the adoption of circular economy principles (see for example Bocken et al., 2017) or 
intensifying the contribution of business models towards circular economy practice (Lüdeke-Freund 
assessing their current state of sustainability (Benn et al., 2014), which represents an important 
step at the beginning of implementing activities for improved sustainability performance. In 
performing companies regarding sustainability which is conducive in a multi-case study approach 
The analysis of the case companies and their efforts on the road towards improved sustainability 
sustainability, meaning that the interpretation of what sustainability actually means to companies 
sustainability, e.g., through misaligned stakeholder expectations; (3) internal barriers consisting of 
and external assets; (5) motives and drivers that promote sustainability efforts through legislation 
Fig. 1: Six stages of increased corporate sustainability 
Fig. 2: Activities to progress along the stages towards improved corporate sustainability 
details of sequential stages of improving corporate sustainability. 
explicit steps on the path to corporate sustainability (Dhanda & Shrotryia, 2020). As such, this work 
initiatives that promote corporate sustainability. Despite these promising contributions, this work 
tools and methods that improve the sustainability performance of corporate practice. 
Corporate sustainability, multi-case study, stage model, Danish context. 
Benn, S., Edwards, M., & Williams, T. (2014) Organizational change for corporate sustainability. 
the next level: A special issue on the circular economy. Journal of Industrial Ecology 21(3): 
Dhanda, U. and Shrotryia, V.K. (2021) Corporate sustainability: the new organizational reality. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F., Gold, S.; Bocken, N. M. P. (2019) A Review and Typology of Circular Economy 
sustainable consumption in the circular economy: An expert study. Journal of Cleaner 
industries (Chertow, 2000). Considered a means of realizing a circular economy (Sommer, 2020), 
2020; Vahidzadeh et al., 2021). IS can be seen as a way of improving the sustainability of individual 
Albino and Fraccascia, 2015) that are widely considered an archetype of circular business models 
model. The authors’ experience and expertise within LCA, sustainability science, and business 
assessing circular business models: 
plastic producing company further afield (case 1 and 2). However, the sustainability of the business 
within the area, thus positively impacting the sustainability of the wider system (case 1 and 2). 
which negatively impacts the sustainability of the business model. However, as the share of 
renewable energy in the energy system increases, the sustainability of the BM will improve. 
energy and water consumption, both impacting the sustainability of the business model. 
model concept and in the development of systems thinking principles for circular business models 
Industrial symbiosis, circular economy, business model, environmental impact, systems thinking 
Bocken, N. et al. (2014) ‘A literature and practice review to develop sustainable business model archetypes’, 
Martin, M. and Harris, S. (2018) ‘Prospecting the sustainability implications of an emerging industrial 
of these experiments to the Circular Economy (CE). 
EEA CE requirements (EEA, 2016), which in turn link to the circular economy loops (narrowing, 
Circularity assessment, circular business models, water mining, wastewater treatment. 
Blomsma, F., & Tennant, M. (2020). Circular economy: Preserving materials or products? Introducing the 
EEA. (2016). Circular economy in Europe. Developing the knowledge base. European Environment agency. 
IWA. (2016). Water utility pathways in a circular economy. https://iwa-network.org/water-utility-pathways-
circular-economy-charting-course-sustainability/ 
ecosystems. Sustainability (Switzerland), 12(1), 14–17. https://doi.org/10.3390/SU12010417 
Saidani, M., Yannou, B., Leroy, Y., Cluzel, F., & Kendall, A. (2019). A taxonomy of circular economy indicators. 
Smol, M., Adam, C., & Preisner, M. (2020). Circular economy model framework in the European water and 
Sustainability in the Business Models 
particular, most universities have integrated sustainability by focusing on specific areas of their 
studies measuring the outputs of sustainability initiatives across HE institutions (Mader, 2012; 
integration of sustainability in universities from a strategic perspective. In particular, the concept 
2002) is, in fact, in line with the systemic changes relating to sustainability through which HE 
outreach activities. Drawing from the strategic management literature and university sustainability 
literature, the conceptual framework includes the multiple areas in which sustainability can be 
categories identified by Vaughter et al. (2013) are considered: integration of sustainability into 
curricula, integration of sustainability into the management of institutions (governance), 
engagement in research focused on sustainability topics, institutional involvement in community 
engagement with sustainability issues and integration of sustainability into operations. In addition, 
‘assessment and reporting’ is considered as a further category of university sustainability (Lozano, 
different degrees of strategic orientation towards sustainability. Then, the business models of 
universities strongly oriented towards sustainability are in-depth analysed in order to examine the 
trying to incorporate sustainability into their business is the ‘design-implementation gap’. In 
sustainability is integrated into the different elements of a university’s business model. The 
university strategic management and sustainability management, document analysis of 
sustainability. By using the concept of a sustainable business model for the first time in the context 
sustainability can be strategically incorporated into university activity to enhance value creation at 
by proposing a framework to assess sustainability integration into the business models of 
universities. In regard to managing the sustainability performance, it also advances research on 
addressed by specific regulations, guidelines, and incentives aimed at fostering sustainability in 
as a deficit in studies measuring the outputs of sustainability initiatives across HE institutions. 
a conceptual framework for the diagnosis of the integration of sustainability in universities from a 
developed by universities to re-orient themselves towards sustainability and shed new light on the 
relationships between the elements and areas in which sustainability can be strategically 
Sustainability, sustainable business model, sustainable innovation, higher education, Italian state 
Bautista-Puig, N. & Sanz-Casado, E. (2021) Sustainability practices in Spanish higher education institutions: an 
Boks, C. & Diehl, J.C. (2006) Integration of sustainability in regular courses: experiences in industrial design 
management system in support of green marketing. Int. Journal of Sustainability in Higher Education. 
Lozano, R., Lukman, R., Lozano, F.J., Huisingh, D. & Lambrechts, W. (2013) Declarations for sustainability in 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2010) Towards a conceptual framework of ‘business models for sustainability’. In Wever, 
Ramísio, P.J., Pinto, L.M.C., Gouveia, N., Costa, H. & Arezes, D. (2019) Sustainability strategy in higher 
research on sustainability in post-secondary education. Sustainability. 5, 2252–2271. 
Wals, A.E.J. (2014) Sustainability in higher education in the context of the UN DESD: a review of learning and 
sustainable circular business models 
sustainability of textile production and consumption have relied on single organisations, consumers 
address sustainability challenges (Geissdoerfer et al. 2018). Although there remain conceptual 
2018; Kraaijenhagen et al., 2016).   Circular business models can be defined as a way of doing 
efficiency, longer life times and recycling of resources. Realizing circular business models require 
in advancing a circular economy and related business models (Marrucci et al., 2019; Meis-Harris et 
al., 2021).  As the environmental benefits of circular business models are complex to verify and 
implementing and advancing sustainable circular business models should be understood better.  
labels and implementing circular business models. Namely, the research question addressed by the 
circular business models? The rest of the paper is structured as follows: First we present the 
applications of eco-labels. Some of the interviewed companies applied circular economy principles 
2022) covered the following themes: Business model; sustainability and circularity; consumer 
demand for sustainability information; eco-label use and added value; eco-label impacts on 
business operations in practice; managing value chain sustainability; and future needs and 
implementing circular business models and aims to understand the reasons. Although the analysis 
sustainable/circular business models.  
The interviews showed that companies exploit certifications on the sustainability of materials (e.g. 
added value from gained transparency, clients, or possibilities to communicate sustainability 
typology of aims of eco-label use in the implementation of circular business models and explore the 
The results are interesting in the context of the textile sector transition to a circular economy.  
Empirical insights on the use of eco-labels as part managing sustainability of business models fills a 
label use towards circular economy, which has been questioned in previous research (Meis-Harris 
Circular business models, eco-labels, sustainable value creation.  
development from a strategic sustainability perspective. Journal of Cleaner Production. 19, 1631–
strategies for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering. 33, 308–320.. 
when experimenting with circular business models?. Sustainable Production and Consumption 29, 
Manninen, K., Koskela, S., Antikainen, R., Bocken, N., Dahlbo, H., Aminoff, A. (2018) Do circular economy 
Marrucci, L., Daddi, T., Iraldo, F. (2019) The integration of circular economy with sustainable consumption 
a circular economy? A rapid review of the literature. Journal of Cleaner Production. 306, 127134.. 
Nußholz, J., 2017. Circular Business Models: Defining a Concept and Framing an Emerging Research Field. 
Sustainability 9, 1810.. doi:10.3390/su9101810 
Innovation, Corporate Sustainability, and Organisational Values within the Fashion Industry. Journal 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G., Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability. Organization & 
and Consumption as Portrayed in the Finnish News Media. Sustainability.13, 594.. 
Natural Fibre Types. Sustainability 11, 3846.. doi:10.3390/su11143846 
sustainability transitions and, in turn, how such transitions spawn novel SBM (Aagaard et al., 2021; 
sustainability transitions’ and understand ‘sustainability transitions’ as “fundamental change at a 
sustainability transitions (Aagaard et al., 2021; Madsen, 2020; Shakeel et al., 2020). Such a new way 
innovation for sustainability transitions. The seven principles of DE foster innovative SBM that move 
constituted a core issue. Moreover, we checked the understanding of sustainability applied in the 
articles. We excluded articles if they only referred to economic sustainability. Our screening led to 
behaviour. It might also inspire business model innovation for sustainability and initiate a revision 
societal sustainability transitions. 
sustainability transitions 
Aagaard, A., Lüdeke-Freund F. & Peter Wells, P. (2021) Business models for sustainability transitions: How 
business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner production. 65, 42-56. 
vis-à-vis circular economy: A case study of compostable cassava starch-based material. Journal of 
development goals. Sustainability. 7 (2), 1651-1660. 
45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model 
Proka, A., Beers, P. J., & Loorbach, D. (2018) Transformative business models for sustainability transitions. 
O. & Sohal, A. (2020) Rethinking sustainability: Questioning old perspectives and developing new 
Stubbs, W., & Cocklin, C. (2008) Conceptualizing a “sustainability business model”. Organization & 
6.3 circular economy, closed loop and life cycle thinking in SBM 
and Influence on Sustainability 
emerged under the rubric of “business models for sustainability” (Schaltegger, Hansen & Lüdeke-
patterns associated with business models for sustainability (Bocken et al., 2014; Lüdeke-Freund et 
oriented models – and are each depicted as a means to promote sustainability (Tukker, 2004).  
research is also evident in a paucity of studies that examine sustainability impacts using multiple 
India. Sustainability Science. 7 (2), 199–212. doi:10.1007/s11625-012-0163-7. 
taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable 
Schaltegger, S., Hansen, E.G. & Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2016) Business Models for Sustainability: Origins, Present 
Shove, E. & Walker, G. (2010) Governing transitions in the sustainability of everyday life. Research Policy. 39 
Tukker, A. (2004) Eight types of product–service system: eight ways to sustainability? Experiences from 
Tukker, A. (2015) Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy – a review. Journal of Cleaner 
Verboven, H. & Vanherck, L. (2016) The sustainability paradox of the sharing economy. uwf 
In order to ensure sustainability, it is relevant understanding how the healthcare system can react 
monitoring in order to achieve sustainability reconciling the growing demand with the available 
proposing solutions in order to contribute to healthcare sustainability. Indeed, digital 
Corporate Sustainability Framework (CSF) is another important research to be adapted for COVID-
system, stakeholders, approach, and sustainability such as communication with stakeholders, 
business terms to corporate sustainability: Learnings from the ‘looking‐glass’ of the east. 
Sustainability, 9(12), 1–17. https://doi.org/10.3390/su9020188  
react to external variations - are a substantial guiding factor toward sustainability transactions 
(Carraresi and Boring, 2021). In a broader sense, sustainability is the ability of a firm to survive and 
a specific innovation trajectory towards sustainability (Bröring et al., 2020). Indeed, innovations can 
also be a process that allows organisations to respond to the call to change towards sustainability, 
sustainability, differently from a traditional one, embraces the economic perspective and the social 
their BMs, while sustainability represents a chance to face external challenges, seize opportunities, 
and follow them by reorganising the BM. Sustainability transitions can trigger changes in the 
resilience and sustainability, but the results are discordant (Negri et al., 2020). Some studies assert 
that sustainability and resilience affect each other (Fahimnia et al., 2019). Some others consider 
resilience a separate concept from sustainability and involve a change in structure, process, or 
sustainability and resilience can be tied to joint synergistic activities or viewed from a trade-off 
This study tries to answer this research call by clarifying if a potential synergy between sustainability 
sustainability could stimulate and promote resilience. Thus, the main research question is: How 
could sustainability help activate dynamic capacities that allows the organisation to be resilient and 
modern society are linked with agricultural sustainability and food production. Research and 
these businesses call for increased sustainability in BMs to safeguard marine habitats and the land 
attention to sustainability while simultaneously contributing to economic and cultural community 
innovations, and sustainability and resilience propensity. Additionally, document analysis of 
has made it possible to sketch a first framework for the link between resilience and sustainability, 
between sustainability, resilience, and BM. In particular, this study represents a first exploratory 
step for understanding if and how sustainability activates dynamic capacities that allow the 
Sustainability, sustainable business model, organisational resilience, agri-food sector.  
Flint, D.J., Golicic, S.L. and Signori, P. (2011), Sustainability through resilience: the very essence of the wine 
Golicic, S. L., Flint, D. J., & Signori, P. (2017). Building business sustainability through resilience in the wine 
Negri, M., Cagno, E., Colicchia, C., & Sarkis, J. (2021). Integrating sustainability and resilience in the supply 
Peattie, K., & Belz, F.-M. (2010). Sustainability marketing—An innovative conception of marketing. Marketing 
COVID-19–the Island Case Studies of Iceland and Greenland. Sustainability. 13 (15), 8470. 
In recent years, sustainability has begun to acquire a significant prominence in the fashion industry 
towards a state of unsustainability as consequence of constant demand for new regularly, changing 
offer a potential pathway to deliver greater social and environmental sustainability through re-
sustainable consumption exemplifies how to effectively embed sustainability into business 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production 65, 42-56. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2013) Towards The Circular Economy. Opportunities for the 
Model Innovation, Corporate Sustainability, and Organisational Values within the Fashion 
Ritch, E. L. & Schröder, M. J. (2012). Accessing and affording sustainability: the experience of fashion 
for sustainable consumption in the circular economy: An expert study. Journal of Cleaner 
What sustainability can do for the businesses? What is the benefit of being a sustainable business? 
Evans, S. et al. (2017) “Business model innovation for sustainability: Towards a unified perspective for 
Sustainability  
positive economic effect (Blume and Voigt, 2009), and sustainability is the north star to stimulate 
market is shifting on the periphery with "sustainability-driven" business models (Haigh and 
as opposing since they differ in some aspects, such as economic sustainability and value 
purposes, typical of for-profit companies, with holistic and positive sustainability impacts, typical of 
Although it is not possible to assess the actual sustainability outcomes of the projects funded by 
of Management for Global Sustainability 2. 
Opinion in Environmental Sustainability, Volume 24, Pages 84-88, ISSN 1877-3435.  
Morioka S.N., Bolis I., Evans S. and Carvalho M.M. (2017). Transforming sustainability challenges 
van der Byl, C., & Slawinski, N., (2015). Embracing tensions in corporate sustainability: a review of 
Development Goals? An analysis of sustainability reports from the social entrepreneurship 
Sustainability, 12(8), 3230. 
Waste valorization; sustainable business models; ecosystem perspective; circular economy; bottom 
Transitioning from a linear ‘take-make-dispose’ economy to a sustainable and circular economy 
does not only play an important role in the transition to a circular economy, it can also provide 
circular business models valorising agricultural waste and by-products. Resources, Conservation and 
Sustainability Science, 12(5). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11625-017-0442-4 
Kanda, W., Geissdoerfer, M., & Hjelm, O. (2021). From circular business models to circular business 
sustainability. The three types of CSBM may bear different implications for CSB’s environmental, 
social and economic sustainability. Finally, we contribute to the broader scholarly debate on value 
models, business model innovation towards sustainability, typology  
Aagaard, A., Lüdeke-Freund F. & Peter Wells, P. (2021) Business models for sustainability 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2010) Towards a conceptual framework of 'business models for sustainability'. 
model pattern taxonomy - 45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model 
In present decade, the circular economy has become a hot subject for discussion by economists in 
So many entrepreneurs are working in circular economy. Therefore, the purpose of this study to 
outcomes of this paper will help policymakers who work to promote the circular economy. Findings 
Circular economy, circular entrepreneurship, determinants, developing nations, pakistan 
WHO. Circular Economy and Healt: Opportunity and Risks. World Health Organization, 2018, EU office, 
EC. The Circular Economy. Connecting, creating and conserving value, 2014. EU Publication Office ISBN 978 
OECD. The Circular Economy in Cities and Regions, 2019, OECD Report, Centre for Entrepreneurship. 
MSMEs, MNEs, and Community to address the need for social progress, sustainability, equity, 
progress in terms of better health, education, poverty eradication, sustainability, equity, and social 
social progress, sustainability, equity, and justice. It can further help eradicate poverty, bringing 
Development: Key Findings from a SWOT–AHP Analysis. Sustainability, 13(9), 5298. 
effectiveness and sustainability of the previous intervention. 
that are creating limited social value and are moreover being evaluated on the sustainability 
multi-actor sustainability problem in cash transfers. We draw from collaborative business model 
Which factors contribute to the sustainability of the system in terms of fostering 
that displays the factors fostering sustainability of cash transfers in the form of financial inclusion 
models for sustainability: design, 
economic and environmental effectiveness and even intrinsic sustainability.  
2007) and a possible barrier to the effectiveness of actions favoring sustainability (Zakari & Toplak, 
Sustainability Impacts in Swedish Cities. Sustainability. 12 (4), 1594. doi:10.3390/su12041594. 
of Car-Sharing in Flanders, Belgium. Sustainability. 12 (19), 8155. doi:10.3390/su12198155. 
for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. 214, 995–1010. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.12.295. 
De Giacomo, M.R. & Bleischwitz, R. (2020) Business models for environmental sustainability: Contemporary 
Frenken, K. (2017) Sustainability perspectives on the sharing economy. Environmental Innovation and Societal 
from a Sharing Economy Platform in China. Sustainability. 11 (15), 4207. doi:10.3390/su11154207. 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D. & Hekkert, M. (2017) Conceptualizing the circular economy: An analysis of 114 
a Survey of Chinese Consumers. Sustainability. 10 (9), 3041. doi:10.3390/su10093041. 
The sharing economy is now considered as a major building block for transitions to sustainability. It 
that sharing economy may have negative consequences on sustainability outcomes. This is due to 
through the integration of the environmental, social, and economic pillars of sustainability (Bocken 
et al., 2013; Geissdoerfer et al., 2018). To achieve sustainability goal through the big umbrella of 
sustainability (Geissdoerfer et al., 2018). 
implementation of sharing economy business models for enhanced sustainability performance. This 
three pillars of sustainability. In doing so, the researchers aim to make two contributions. First, to 
develop a model that considers consumer behavior and perceptions towards sustainability in 
to achieve sustainability, the below model is developed. Botsman and Rogers (2010) claim that 
sustainability. 
or food (Hwang and Griffiths, 2017). Although research has proved that sustainability could be a 
sustainability, and consumer behavior into their sharing economy models. 
that should be in a sharing economy business model that leads and fits with sustainability pillars 
achieving the sustainability goals through their consumption patterns and purchasing behaviors. 
creating the value in parallel with sustainability. Businesses and startups need to redesign their 
business models through pursuing sustainability strategies, through integrating the environmental, 
sustainability pressures, it is important for businesses to collaborate with other stakeholders in 
Sharing economy, Sustainability, business models, consumer behavior 
Abutaleb, S., El-Bassiouny, N. and Hamed, S., (2020). Sharing rides and strides toward sustainability: an 
sustainable business model archetypes. Journal of cleaner production, 65, pp.42-56. 
Curtis, S.K. and Mont, O., (2020). Sharing economy business models for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner 
Heinrichs, H., (2013). Sharing economy: a potential new pathway to sustainability. Gaia, 22(4), p.228. 
extrinsic and intrinsic motivation. Sustainability, 11(3), p.640. 
Parguel, B., Lunardo, R. and Benoit-Moreau, F., (2017). Sustainability of the sharing economy in question: 
Plepys, A. and Singh, J., (2019). Evaluating the sustainability impacts of the sharing economy using input-
transportation mean, sustainability, personal space, and data privacy, on consumer preference for 
and a low price, another segment prioritises sustainability. We found that overall price, 
convenience and sustainability strongly influence consumer preference for mobility services on 
interests, and environmental sustainability. By redesigning their business models, MSPs can 
acceptance of access-based consumption in the case of smartphones. Sustainability, 10(7).  
Tirachini, A., Chaniotakis, E., Abouelela, M. & Antoniou, C. 2020. The sustainability of shared mobility: Can a 
Factors such as environment sustainability concerns and personal health are also drivers that to 
Does sustainability affect consumer 
a new lifestyle with altruistic values and social and environmental sustainability being the main 
From this background, the role of sustainability along the phases of the purchasing funnel has been 
As for the second purpose, the relation between sharing economy and sustainability has been 
about sharing consumer often refer to sustainability as having an impact on consumer behaviour, 
into the remaining categories to analyse the emerging trends. The concept of sustainability has 
means that, according to the analysed articles, sharing consumers deal with sustainability when 
sharing economy. This is the phase in which sustainability emerges the most and under different 
element. Similarly, Puiu (2020) claims that despite the positive impact sustainability has in catching 
Matharu et al. (2020) recall the LOHAS (Lifestyles Of Health And Sustainability) concept, stating that 
sustainability has an impact in orienting those individuals with a positive attitude towards 
about sustainability have an impact in orienting the purchasing process of those products that are 
Otherwise, sustainability has no impact when the product is perceived as essential in defining the 
Sustainability emerges again in the articles falling into the act phase of the purchasing process. 
Finally, in the advocate phase, sustainability is referred to only in one article from Arteaga-Sánchez 
consumer behaviour in the sharing economy, where the role of sustainability has been identified 
contributions is that the impact of sustainability on the consumer behaviour in the sharing economy 
gap that emerged in the extant literature. Also, the role of sustainability has been detected in three 
sustainability, offering greater insight about their connection in the consumer behaviour 
Sharing economy, Consumer behavior, Sustainability, Literature review 
Parguel, B., Lunardo, R., & Benoit-Moreau, F. (2017). Sustainability of the sharing economy in question: When 
Mackenzie, S. G., & Davies, A. R. (2019). SHARE IT: Co-designing a sustainability impact assessment framework 
Michelini, L., Principato, L. and Iasevoli, G. (2018). Understanding food sharing models to tackle sustainability 
business models and circular economy 
This track aims both at exploring new sustainable and circular business models that allow 
One of the most important social aspects of sustainability is transparency. It is explained as 
Transparency has a significant impact on both sustainability of the green products and the 
referred to as Sustainability Report. Although the government of Canada has granted $915 million 
ongoing challenge regarding this aspect of the sustainability in the environmental actions of the 
simultaneously, most of the studies on the sustainability development in the operations 
research, we contribute to the operations management literature on sustainability development 
Multiple studies have shown that the government could help corporations improve sustainability 
Given the significance of transparency in the sustainability and the ongoing challenge of this aspect, 
intersection of sustainability development, transparency and green supply chain management 
costs such as CSR and sustainability efforts (e.g., Ma et al. 2017 and Xu et al. 2017).  We assume 
corporations and the government such as sustainability development, social welfare and maximal 
transparency as well as the important objectives of the sustainability. 
Sustainability; environmental disclosure; government intervention; environmental subsidy; 
Xu, X., Xiao, G., Gursoy, D., 2017. Maximizing prots through optimal pricing and sustainability strategies: A 
valorisation’, and ‘vegetable waste valorisation’. In total, 47 initiatives of circular business models 
valorisation is then positively related to opportunities for implementing sustainability and 
solutions correspond to one, two or three of the sustainability dimensions – economic, 
circular economy, bioeconomy, business models, waste and by-product valorisation, fruit and 
Donner, M. & Radić, I. (2021) Innovative circular business models in the olive oil sector for sustainable 
Mediterranean agrifood systems. Sustainability. 13(5), 2588. 
claims and value propositions can diverge, obstructing the long-term sustainability of the 
models: Value creation for sustainability. Journal of Business Ethics, 166(1), 3-18.  
Goossens, Y., Wegner, A., & Schmidt, T. (2019). Sustainability Assessment of Food Waste Prevention 
Hernández-Chea et al., 2021). In this context, the Circular Economy - CE (Ghisellini, Cialani & Ulgiati, 
research field (Reinhardt et al., 2020) to cope with the sustainability in organizations (Bocken, Rana 
Sustainable Business Model, Structuration Theory, Circular Economy, PSS. 
Bocken, N., Weissbrod, I. & Antikainen, M. (2021) Business Model Experimentation for the Circular Economy: 
Definition and Approaches. Circular Economy and Sustainability. doi:10.1007/s43615-021-00026-z. 
Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a Unified Perspective for Creation of Sustainable 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C. & Ulgiati, S. (2016) A review on circular economy: the expected transition to a 
Hernández-Chea, R., Jain, A., Bocken, N.M.P. & Gurtoo, A. (2021) The Business Model in Sustainability 
Transitions: A Conceptualization. Sustainability. 13 (11), 5763. doi:10.3390/su13115763. 
Circular Economy: The Route to Decoupling Economic Growth from Resource Consumption? Journal 
Tukker, A. (2015) Product services for a resource-efficient and circular economy – a review. Journal of Cleaner 
an improvement in production with a view to sustainability and effective intervention to reduce 
understanding in depth the implications for sustainability and the SDGs achievement. 
social responsibility (CSR), business sustainability, sustainable supply chain management and food 
development and expansion phase, in connection with the Literatures of Sustainability Transition 
Practical implications concern the three areas of sustainability, in alignment with the triple bottom 
Franceschelli, M.V., Santoro, G. & Candelo, E. (2018) Business model innovation for sustainability: a food 
Michelini, L., Principato, L. & Iasevoli, G. (2018) Understanding Food Sharing Models to Tackle Sustainability 
Business Models for Sustainability as Social 
sustainability as social action. Building on the prominent activity-based perspective of Zott 
and Amit (2010), business models realize their sustainability effects in and through social 
sustainability can contribute to a sustainable transformation of their socio-ecological 
Greenwashing, business models, corporate sustainability, dissonance. 
stakeholder relationships is often considered as a key goal of corporate sustainability (Hengst et al., 
sustainability agenda. The inconsistency between corporate “talk” and “action” when it comes to 
sustainability has led to accusations of greenwashing, which can be broadly defined as: “(…) 
sustainability claims to outright lies about the sustainability performance of a product or an 
talk", which means that a company's sustainability claims 
“(…) selective disclosure on sustainability issues without full  
reporting  of  material  sustainability  issues  to  overstate  its  
true  sustainability  performance”. 
disguise the costs of sustainability activities (Kim and Lyon, 2015). Other concepts describing 
Hengst et al., 2020). Decoupling has also be applied in the study of sustainability and greenwashing, 
circular economy activities from core business  practices (Stål and Corvellec, 2021). However, 
its conduct regarding sustainability in order to improve reputation, attract resources, or hide 
sustainability performance.  
important environmental impacts in the upstream supply chain in their sustainability report. Last, 
sustainability initiatives (e.g. certifications, labels, and multi-stakeholder initiatives) which require 
sustainability while locking
sustainability projects
about the sustainability
environmental impacts in their sustainability
8.  The company subscribes to sustainability
claims to sustainability (Butler, 2022).   
the concept of sustainability. Therefore, Greenpeace (among others) calls for the 
sustainability:  
the sustainability of their products. For instance, a company like Canada Goose has 
sustainability. In their 2020 Impact Agenda Lululemon writes that: “We’ll adapt 
misleading sustainability claims directed towards the consumers. As an example, H&M 
reached agreement on how to communicate sustainability 
Zalando has been critizised for its use of the sustainability label: “Calling a garment 
25 sustainability certifications that Zalando uses, the online platform has created half of 
problematic to invent your own sustainability labels (Sæhl, Kristensen and Andersen, 
sustainability-centric-advertising/) 
do little to ensure the sustainability of their business activities. For instance, fashion 
between the various building blocks. Attempts to formulate business model archetypes, typologies, 
disconnects regarding sustainability issues, which is based on the the various typologies of the 
models, which seem to be a common phenomenon in the context of corporate sustainability.  
Sustainability Reporting. Accounting, Organizations and Society, 40, 78-94. 
Firms’ Sustainability Claims and Stakeholders’ Interpretation. Academy of Management Journal, 
Sustainability Practices by Tourism Businesses, Journal of Sustainable Tourism, 25 (7), 1007-2023.  
Models: Value Creation for Sustainability. Journal of Business Ethics, 166,  3–18. 
Sustainability Strategies Legitimate in Action. Academy of Management Journal, 63 (1), 246-271. 
Higgins, C., Tang, S., & Stubbs, W. (2020). On Managing Hypocrisy: The Transparency of Sustainability Reports. 
Hummel, K. & Festl-Pell, D. (2015). Much Ado About Nothing? Sustainability Disclosure in the Banking 
Sustainability Disclosure. Organization Science, 26(3), 705-723. 
Lüdeke-Freund, F. (2009). Business Model Concepts in Corporate Sustainability Contexts: From Rhetoric to a 
Generic Template for "Business Models for Sustainability". Centre for Sustainability Management. 
Taxonomy – 45 Patterns to Support Sustainability-Oriented Business Model Innovation. Sustainable 
Innovation, Corporate Sustainability, and Organisational Values within the Fashion Industry. Journal 
Zharfpeykan, R. (2021). Representative account or greenwashing? Voluntary sustainability reports in 
of novel circular business models, within the “Circular Sprint” design thinking-based innovation 
sustainability impacts of 
sustainability of 4 real 
sustainability 
Bocken, N. et al. (2014) ‘A literature and practice review to develop sustainable business model archetypes’, 
Bocken, N. et al. (2016) ‘Product design and business model strategies for a circular economy’, Journal of 
Lewandowski, M. (2016) ‘Designing the business models for circular economy-towards the conceptual 
framework’, Sustainability (Switzerland), 8(1), pp. 1–28. doi: 10.3390/su8010043. 
sustainability-oriented business model innovation’, Sustainable Production and Consumption, 15, 
Lüdeke‐Freund, F., Gold, S. and Bocken, N. (2019) ‘A Review and Typology of Circular Economy Business 
innovation in a circular economy. Delft University of Technology. 
Santa-Maria, T., Vermeulen, W. J. V. and Baumgartner, R. J. (2021) ‘Embedding Circular Economy and Business 
sustainability 
Business model, innovation, tool, business model patterns, sustainability 
sustainability. The BMIT should allow companies to discover and implement sustainability 
Basque Country and the Strategic Plan of Gipuzkoa, sustainability opportunities (economically-, 
Circular Economy. 
sustainability. 
to it, which represent key aspects related to sustainability and other European challenges for the 
Circular Economy. 
In Figure 5, the industry sector (purple) and circular economy strategic area (green) filters are 
practical support for companies to identify sustainability opportunities, devise new BMs and share 
tools. Sustainability 11(8). Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute: 2210. 
patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model innovation. Sustainable Production and 
Pieroni MPP, McAloone Tim C, Borgianni Y, et al. (2021) An expert system for circular economy business 
Pieroni MPP, McAloone Tim C. and Pigosso DCA (2021) Circular economy business model innovation: Sectorial 
consistency have gained a lot of attention in research on  circular economy, sufficiency in 
towards a circular economy. 
for dissemination and stabilization of a sufficiency-oriented circular economy. 
Sufficiency, Social Practice Theory, Circular Economy, Production and Consumption Practices, 
emerges as a new sustainability paradigm, a social movement, and a field of research focusing on 
and the business models they employ. While business models for sustainability extend this 
transformation: repoliticizing sustainability. In Sustain Sci 10 (3), 375–384. DOI: 10.1007/s11625-
The Case of Oatly. In Sustainability 12 (3), 824. DOI: 10.3390/su12030824. 
Models: Value Creation for Sustainability. In J Bus Ethics 17 (1), 1. DOI: 10.1007/s10551-019-04112-
sustainability? In Journal of Cleaner Production 177, 721–731. DOI: 10.1016/j.jclepro.2017.12.182. 
heterogeneity of sustainability business models. In Long Range Planning 51 (1), 158–183. DOI: 
pattern taxonomy—45 patterns to support sustainability-oriented business model innovation. In 
Steffen, W., Richardson, K., Rockström, J., Cornell, S. E., Fetzer, I., Bennett, E. M. et al. (2015). Sustainability. 
understandings of central concepts such as ‘green’, ‘sustainability’ and ‘innovation’ in a group, and 
Brydges, T. (2021) Closing the loop on take, make, waste: Investigating circular economy practices in the 
Li, J., & Leonas, K. K. (2021) Sustainability topic trends in the textile and apparel industry: a text mining-based 
Corporate Sustainability, and Organisational Values within the Fashion Industry. Journal of Business 
Rinaldi F.R. (2019) Fashion Industry 2030. Reshaping the Future Through Sustainability and Responsible 
Ventures that strive for Sustainability 
How to deal with tensions in corporate sustainability is an issue of high relevance for both, scholars, 
Since early-stage ventures that strive for sustainability have distinctly different characteristics, they 
cannot rely on any “ready-to-wear” strategy. In addition, sustainability-oriented ventures have 
In the current literature, there is far less attention dedicated to tensions sustainability-oriented 
To close this gap, the present study examines tensions faced by sustainability-oriented ventures 
We sampled eight sustainability-oriented ventures tracing their business model development, the 
tensions, sustainability-oriented ventures face in their early stages. 
legitimation advance business model innovation in the context of a circular economy. 
and self-sustainability to the circular business model innovation. 
sustainability. Many companies commit to sustainability goals and targets. Frequently they use 
achieve their sustainability goals by means of sustainable business models (SBMs) (Aagaard & 
opportunities, which are directed by both the sustainability goals of the organizations and the 
stakeholders’ value in the SBMI. Secondly, having a clear sustainability vision and goals as part of 
performance metrics to measure sustainability performance of SBMs. 
sustainability goals 
Co-creating and communicating clear sustainability goals and alignment 
cases (i.e., customers from different industrial sectors and with varying sustainability ambitions) to 
sustainability goals 
Arnold, M. (2017) Fostering sustainability by linking co-creation and relationship management concepts. 
Bocken, N., Miller, K. & Evans, S. (2016) Assessing the environmental impact of new Circular business models. 
business model archetypes. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 65, 42–56. Available from: 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F. & Tiemann, I. (2018) Sustainability-oriented business model 
for sustainability. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 214, 995–1010. Available from: 
development goals: The company perspective. Sustainability (Switzerland). [Online] 12 (12). 
Sustainability: Towards a Unified Perspective for Creation of Sustainable Business Models. Business 
circular economy business models in service-oriented technology companies. Journal of Cleaner 
Design for the Circular Economy: The BECE Framework. Journal of Industrial Ecology. [Online] 21 (3), 
Pieroni, M.P.P., McAloone, T.C. & Pigosso, D.C.A. (2019) Business model innovation for circular economy and 
sustainability: A review of approaches. Journal of Cleaner Production. [Online] 215, 198–216. 
Models for Sustainability Innovation: Multilevel Tension Management as a Dynamic Capability. 
Rohrbeck, R., Konnertz, L. & Knab, S. (2013) Collaborative business modelling for systemic and sustainability 
Sharma, A. & Kearins, K. (2011) Interorganizational collaboration for regional sustainability: What happens 
Innovation: An Umbrella Review. Sustainability. [Online] 13 (13), 7266. Available from: 
Trust, service-based business models, servitization, sustainability, fashion 
solutions with sustainability placed at the core of their value proposition, but the role trust plays in 
In the context of fashion, sustainability challenges and opportunities are high-priority (Forst et al., 
studies have suggested that it could help organisations reach sustainability targets (Antikainen et 
sustainability (option considered to be more environmentally-friendly and efficient in terms of 
maintenance and disposal (Armstrong et al., 2015), and could support the sustainability transition 
sustainability
Antikainen, M., Uusitalo, T., & Kivikytö-Reponen, P. (2018) Digitalisation as an enabler of circular economy. 
Model Innovation for Sustainability: Towards a Unified Perspective for Creation of Sustainable 
Sharma, M. G. & Singh, K. N. 2017. Servitization, Coopetition, and Sustainability: An Operations Perspective 
Circular Economy Business Models  
The circular economy (CE) offers a compelling pathway towards a meaningful sustainable change 
as sustainability-as-usual (Godelnik, 2021), in the focus of companies on closing material loops 
could inform CE business models that go beyond sustainability-as-usual?  
conditions that are critical to creating circular business models (CBMs) with substantial 
sustainability impact, taking a more systemic approach to change the focal point from the matter 
developing CBMs that could offer a more substantial sustainability impact. It conceptualizes the 
of a broader and more strategic approach to design to help open up the current sustainability-as-
Circular economy, design thinking, strategic design, sustainability, business model design.  
Bocken, N. M. P., Harsch, A. and Weissbrod, I. (2022) ‘Circular business models for the fastmoving consumer 
Bocken, N. M. P., Ritala, P. and Huotari, P. (2017) ‘The Circular Economy: Exploring the Introduction of the 
Cifuentes-Faura, J. (2021) ‘Circular Economy and Sustainability as a Basis for Economic Recovery Post-COVID-
19’, Circular Economy and Sustainability. doi: 10.1007/s43615-021-00065-6. 
Cline, E. L. (2021) ‘Will the Circular Economy Save the Planet?’, Sierra, Jan/Feb, pp. 28–33. 
Corvellec, H., Stowell, A. F. and Johansson, N. (2021) ‘Critiques of the circular economy’, Journal of Industrial 
Geissdoerfer, M. et al. (2020) ‘Circular business models: A review’, Journal of Cleaner Production, p. 123741. 
Godelnik, R. (2021) Rethinking Corporate Sustainability in the Era of Climate Crisis, Rethinking Corporate 
Sustainability in the Era of Climate Crisis. Cham, Switzerland: Palgrave Macmillan. 
Hofmann, F. (2019) ‘Circular business models: Business approach as driver or obstructer of sustainability 
Lacy, P., Long, J. and Spindler, W. (2020) The Circular Economy Handbook: Realizing the Circular Advantage. 
Lacy, P. and Rutqvist, J. (2015) Waste to Wealth: The Circular Economy Advantage. London, UK: Springer. 
Pownall, A. (2019) ‘We’re looking at a change of our total business’ says IKEA sustainability chief Lena Pripp-
Circular Economy contexts: the focus 
2016). By circular economy we normally mean, using its prominent definition, a system that is 
and recycling. The circular economy concept has recently gained momentum in both academia and 
business models toward a circular economy. In order to shed light on the topic and produce a 
search formula: ‘business model innovation*’ AND ‘circular economy’ OR ‘circular*’. With the initial 
Our study confirms the increasing trend on the topic of business models for a circular economy, as 
Our findings reveal that, in the context of Business Model Innovation for a circular economy, 
as a resource and support the implementation of circular economy practices (Perey et al., 2018). 
Bakker & Balkenende, 2018). A design approach is central to a circular economy, that aims to design 
the circular economy discourse (Brown, Bocken & Balkenende, 2019). Therefore, we argue that 
collaboration and co-creation for a circular economy. A longer-term and more collaborative 
circular economy (Brown, Bocken & Balkenende, 2019). 
circular economy. The analysis also offers relevant implications for practitioners, as it suggests three 
increasing relevance that policies have assumed to foster the circular economy.  
key elements of business model innovation for a circular economy. Particularly, the following 
for a circular economy?; b) What are the internal and external competencies required to foster 
Circular economy, innovation, collaboration, co-creation, business models 
Innovation? Sustainability, 11(3), 635. 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2012). Circular Economy: Towards Economic and Business rationale for an 
European Commission, Directorate-General for Communication, (2020). Circular economy action plan: for a 
Ghisellini, P., Cialani, C., & Ulgiati, S. (2016) A review on circular economy: The expected transition to a 
Kirchherr, J., Reike, D., & Hekkert, M. (2017) Conceptualizing the circular economy: An analysis of 114 
Lähdeaho, O., Hilmola, O. and Kajatkari, R. (2020) Maritime supply chain sustainability: South-East Finland 
circular economy Business Strategy and Environment, 27, 631-642. 
Models: A Case Study on the Lease and Refurbishment of Baby Strollers. Sustainability, 10(7), 2415. 
Urbinati, A., Chiaroni, D., and Chiesa, V. (2017) Towards a New Taxonomy of Circular Economy Business 
Beverage Industry. Sustainability, 11, 3650. 
Werning, J.P., Spinler, S. (2020) Transition to circular economy on firm level: barrier identification and 
Whalen, K. A. (2019) Three circular business models that extend product value and their contribution to 
From Circular Economy to Circular 
focusing on a circular economy rather than the predominant economic models based on a 
take-make-waste approach. But after all, the concept of circular economy can be seen as 
In this context, the circular economy represents not only an alternative to the current 
European Union counts on the effects of the circular economy to reach climate neutrality by 
of the high potential in practice, research on the topic of circular economy has been 
The concept of circular economy challenges linear business models and instead calls for 
p. 498).  But as the circular economy primarily focuses on value creation as well as 
Since the concept of circular economy is often seen as too short and one-sided (e.g., Friant 
system regarding circular economy has already been widely researched, for example in the 
Circular society, circular economy, sustainable business models, system level,  
for a circular economy. Journal of Industrial and Production Engineering, 33(5), 308–320. Available 
Ellen MacArthur Foundation (2013) Towards the Circular Economy. Ellen MacArthur Foundation. 
Friant, M. C., Vermeulen, W. J. V., Salomone, R. (2020) A typology of circular economy discourses: Navigating 
the circular economy. Journal of Cleaner Production, 190, 712–721. Available from: 
Geissdoerfer, M., Pieroni, M. P. P., Pigosso, D. C. A., Soufani, K. (2020) Circular business models: A review. 
civil society in circular economy transitions. Business Strategy and the Environment, [online] 
Jaeger-Erben, M., Jensen, C., Hofmann, F., Zwiers, J. (2021) There is no sustainable circular economy without 
Dimensions Matter for the Circular Economy. Journal of Industrial Ecology, 21 (3), 497-506. Available 
VanDyck, C. K. (2017) Concept and Definition of Civil Society Sustainability. Centre for Strategic & International 
public/publication/170630_VanDyck_CivilSocietySustainability_Web.pdf [Accessed: 5th April 2022].  
Innovation for Sustainability 
Innovation and Sustainability, Halmstad University 
transition towards sustainability. Bringing these together to facilitate learning and joint co-creation 
towards business model innovation for sustainability (BMIfS) can be a powerful force for action. 
(Upward & Jones, 2016) to the logic of sustainability-as-flourishing or “positive-impact companies” 
Sustainability challenges are usually wicked and hard to resolve, demanding creative, systemic, and 
their business models entangled in complex ecosystems and how to support  sustainability, have 
Educating to enable students and SMEs to innovate business models for sustainability and be 
continue to thwart the transition to sustainability until communities of people from business and 
Business Model Innovation for Sustainability, Co-Creation, Higher Education, Organizational 
sustainability scenarios for universities: moving beyond the United Nations decade of education for 
Breuer, H., Fichter, K., Lüdeke-Freund, F., & Tiemann, I. (2018). Sustainability-oriented business model 
institutions toward sustainable development. Sustainability, 12(8), 3371. 
Guerra, A. (2017). Integration of sustainability in engineering education. International Journal of Sustainability 
sustainability aspects in university curricula and integrating education for sustainable development. 
Kurucz, E.C., Colbert, B.A., & Marcus, J. (2014). Sustainability as a provocation to rethink management 
O'Brien, W., & Sarkis, J. (2014). The potential of community-based sustainability projects for deep learning 
Sustainability Performance: A 
Businesses in the construction industry need to improve their sustainability performance, 
organizations have now taken steps to embed sustainability in their strategy and way they do 
business. Far from sustainability being a cost, these organizations realized new opportunities and 
for sustainability as an important aspect in helping organizations with these rapidly changing 
regulations and customer requirements for sustainability. They can help organizations sense these 
new sustainability opportunities, adapt their business model and strategy to seize them, and 
sustainability performance, looking to better understand how they developed their dynamic 
capabilities for sustainability to achieve their current level. 
School of Business, Innovation and Sustainability, Halmstad University 
Chair for Corporate Sustainability, ESCP Business School Berlin 
Institute of Systems Sciences, Innovation and Sustainability Research, University of Graz 
